Sector Is Not Recognised in the Database.
Ruined by dreams of avarice, this sector was originally claimed by a Teladi entrepreneur, eager to expand to ever greater frontiers. But within his investments at Grand Exchange lay the seeds of despair that eventually led to this sector being placed under auction, in the hope that salvation would be financial, if nothing more.
Whether this sector was claimed through fate or fortune is still unknown. However rumour persists that the owner, of distant descent, came to its ownership through a journey many believed existed only in myth and legend. The future has yet to be written, but its foundations begin and end here, within these gates.
After the Kha'ak attack on President's End, a decision was made to improve the security of Argon home systems. A taskforce was assembled in The Wall and sent to Elena's Fortune. Orders were given to capture and retake the sector, after a Kha'ak attack decimated the pirate forces who had held control over the system for so long. Argon surveillance expeditions later discovered that the Kha'ak attack destroyed the gate leading to the neighbouring system of Olmancketslat's Treaty.
Discovered and claimed by the Paranid, Heretic's End was abandoned due to its distance from the rest of the Paranid Empire. Today it is used as a training area for Paranid pilots.
Goner prophets and mystics, their mission now complete, travel along a very different path to that of their forefathers. The burning prophecy that Nathan R Gunne's words once held is embodied in this sector, now home to an ever-increasing number of believers, intent on ensuring that the truth of Gunne's Crusade lives on in eternity. To that end, each new station is blessed and considered a distant annexe of the Goner Temple.
After a failed attempt at securing land from the Njy family, the Z'rt family had no choice but to look elsewhere. Rumours emerged over time that the Ryk family had discovered a new system which they were soon planning to occupy. However because of a lack of resources they kept such knowledge a closely guarded secret, - or so they thought. Acting upon data collected from their spies, the Z'rt family moved in quickly and established a colony, much to the Ryk family's anger.
After establishing their primary system to the anger of the Ryk family, the Z'rt patriarch gained the friendship of the Njy family and secured resources to establish their second system. Z'rt's Dominion was formed bordering a dangerous Xenon system.
This newly discovered system shows that the Xenon are still a concern; the sector houses a secondary production facility for Xenon vessels and is home to a large defence force. Some speculate that a Xenon core system is nearby.
Increased Kha'ak activity has meant that the Paranid have made no move to reclaim this inhospitable sector and no other race has shown interest as it borders only Paranid space. Localised Yaki activity is also a negative point to consider, leading some to believe it is used as a Pirate or Yaki safe-haven.
Ex-racing pilot and wealthy entrepreneur, Ser Alman Jonferson used some of his vast financial fortune to help sponsor construction on one of the largest and most prestigious racing circuits available. Its proximity to the lawless pirate sectors does however make security in this sector an issue. Race events held here do make for some of the most interesting races in the league calendar.
After the battle in the sector known today as Nopileos' Memorial, the Xenon have used this sector as a junkyard, storing and recycling ships here. The coordinates for the gate to this sector were lost, but a recent survey by Argon Expeditionary forces have since rediscovered the gate's location.
Midnight Star was discovered by Argon Expeditionary Forces and named because of the angle at which the now colonised planet faces the sun, leaving one hemisphere in eternal darkness.
This sector was established shortly after the initial Kha'ak invasions, and was intended as a support sector for supplying food and minerals to other Argon colonies.
The Grand Exchange refers to the large skyscraper on the surface of Goldminer's Dream, the primary planet. The traders' exchange centre was supposed to control Teladi Company trade throughout the known universe. However repeated Kha'ak attacks on Teladi communications satellites halted the necessary communications.
This bleak region is home to the Yaki faction. Little else is known about this sector.
Merchant Haven was established to be a major trade port for the new Teladi expansion campaign. However the plans failed when surprise attacks by hostile forces stopped the advance into nearby systems. The sector now serves the local Teladi population and trades with the nearby Argon and Split.
Mired in the torment of a war without honour, rumour suggests the Yaki have chosen this sector as a point of respite and for many of them, a place to call home. Argon and Paranid scouts returning from missions have reported ships known to be of Yaki origin, patrolling both this and the adjacent sector of Ocracoke's Storm. Clearly both sectors offer a battlefront upon which to launch further attacks, while protecting the dark secrets thought to dwell deep within the Badlands. The sector's name is a clear sign of defiance to the Argon and a warning of past mistakes for the Teladi.
The Teladi discovered this sector shortly after they occupied the neighbouring Merchant Haven system. A strong magnetic storm blocked their sensors and a fleet of pirate vessels ambushed the explorers and destroyed their vessels. The Teladi have not returned.
The leader of the Split family Rhy discovered and occupied this sector shortly after the Kha'ak invasions began. The sector was supposedly taken from the Kha'ak by the Rhy Family in an unconfirmed story.
The Boron sector of Shining Currents was founded as a food production centre to aid the continuing growth of the Boron Kingdom. The name comes from the reflection of the mercury ocean on the moon of the primary planet.
The planet Elysium is described as a peaceful paradise world filled with lush plant life. The lowlands, however, are filled with a thick mist for half of the planet's day. This does not seem to worry the Boron, who remain at some distance within their deep-sea homes.
This sector lies in low orbit of the hostile planet Xhar'Bar, where the Xaarist priests accused early colonists of not following the Paranid religion.
The fire pits of the planet of XaarXen were deemed to be holy by the priests of the Paranid Xaarist religion, after the original expedition vessel was consumed by a firestorm that formed from one of these pits.
Buried amongst the desolate streams of rock that cover this remote mining operation, lie the dreams of many who came here in search of fortune. Both equally crushed, both little more than a cold dark shadow of the lives they had once hoped for.
Without feature or feeling, Uranus stands torn between the grip of the inner system and the hopes of those who have made this silent behemoth their home.
Within the cold dark seas of Titan, many see the primordial beginnings of a future home alongside that of Earth. Left untouched by terraforming, for now that future remains unblemished.
Deemed to be a viable Class IV mining operation by long-range scout vessels en-route to Proxima Centauri, the Oort Cloud remains largely untouched. Halfway between home and distant suns, few willingly choose to settle here. Those who do are often known to succumb to Oort's Curse, a madness with no reason or cure.
In Pluto lie the beginnings of the Kuiper Belt. Once thought of as being one of Sol's home planets, it has long since been orphaned and discarded to the uneasy drift of Kuiper's reign. Central Control for both Kuiper and Oort mining are based here, alongside the Military Base of Operations for the outer zones.
Known by many as Sol's Eye, Neptune's stunning blue shimmer has enticed many to travel further in search of such sights. The cold harsh winds here are sometimes farmed as a viable source of hydrogen.
Without feature or feeling, Uranus stands torn between the grip of the inner system and the hopes of those who have made this silent behemoth their home.
To fly across the rings of Saturn, to know its beauty and splendour, to gaze upon such timeless grace, to do all these things is to finally accept your home amongst the stars. It remains a rite of passage for those wishing to gain true understanding of the journey taken.
Scorched by the fires of eternity, Mercury remains a modern-day Gehenna for those who still believe in such a place. Forsaken by all but the most hardy of voyagers, there are few systems that hold greater torment.
To fly across the rings of Saturn, to know its beauty and splendour, to gaze upon such timeless grace, to do all these things is to finally accept your home amongst the stars. It remains a rite of passage for those wishing to gain true understanding of the journey taken.
To fly across the rings of Saturn, to know its beauty and splendour, to gaze upon such timeless grace, to do all these things is to finally accept your home amongst the stars. It remains a rite of passage for those wishing to gain true understanding of the journey taken.
Discovered by chance in the travels of an almost mythical adventurer, the governments of the individual races were unable to agree on who should administer this system in the future. In order to underline their own requirements, each race hurriedly built their own space stations. Despite the hefty protests of the Patriarch of the Split, the female discoverer was appointed during the transition to oversee sector development. Each government sent their own workers and colonists, transporters and combat ships, even mighty destroyers to keep the peace in this virgin system. It was the desire of the discoverer of this system to name it after a ship, flown by another female pilot whose origins were a once fabled planet, Earth. The sector is now under Terracorp administration.
Although many ships have been sent to survey this sector, few have returned. Once shunned by all the sentient species, last surveillance records show the system was home to a pirate base that the Xenon placed under constant attack. Pirate forces set this base up in search of easy pickings when the Xenon fleet jumped to a nearby sector, only to find the Xenon returned shortly after in greater numbers. With access to the gate blocked, evacuation attempts were deemed futile, leaving them with no option but to hold their position. Their survival in this sector, while unlikely, is still a case for much debate.
Bathed in the blood of war-torn nebulae, the Rhonkar Family chose this sector as a point from which to launch further onslaughts against all who opposed them, as well as lick their wounds when such battles fell short. In the outer rim, countless war-dead are offered to the sun in remembrance of their struggle.
Originally discovered and claimed by the Split Patriarch as a hideaway, this sector is now a thriving commercial colony. It is from here that the Split Patriarch ordered his forces to repel the attacks from the rebelling Family Rhonkar. In the final days of the war, the sector was thought to be impenetrable after the deployment of three of the Patriarch's latest prototype destroyers. They managed to defend the sector with their armament of 20 plasma throwers per ship. The Rhonkar family eventually found a way through this blockade. Sending in a small fleet of heavy fighters, they made a successful kamikaze run against the command vessel. Finally a combined Rhonkar - Njy fleet attacked, eliminating the other two prototypes. The Patriarch was captured and deposed. The plans for the destroyers were lost in battle.
Without feature or feeling, Uranus stands torn between the grip of the inner system and the hopes of those who have made this silent behemoth their home.
Massive by even Terran standards, Jupiter's magnificence is rarely lost on those who enter this sector. The planet's upper atmosphere hosts a wide array of semi-organic life, much of which is still under analysis.
The bitter crushing winds that envelop Venus are matched only by the tenacity of those who have chosen to colonise this sector. The settlers of Venus take pride in atmospheric farming, their yield being equally acidic as their wit.
In past times, Earth's moon was little more than a glimmer of the dreams held within those who gazed upon it. The cratered surface now glittering with countless refineries and bases, few will ever remember it as being anything more than a stepping-stone to the stars.
Massive by even Terran standards, Jupiter's magnificence is rarely lost on those who enter this sector. The planet's upper atmosphere hosts a wide array of semi-organic life, much of which is still under analysis.
Massive by even Terran standards, Jupiter's magnificence is rarely lost on those who enter this sector. The planet's upper atmosphere hosts a wide array of semi-organic life, much of which is still under analysis.
During a race through the outer territories, Tomasz Tamboursan's ship suffered several malfunctions and as a result he became stranded in this sector. Days later a rescue ship was able to salvage him and his ship. Although filled with many asteroids rich in minerals, nobody had yet claimed this sector. A Freedom's Reach race organiser rewarded a smart pilot with information regarding the whereabouts of the sector after he saved his life, unaware of the secrets and treasures within.
Miners within this sector are constantly aware that their work is undertaken under the strict scrutiny of security forces, allocated to protect the jump gate recently relocated from Earth. The military presence here is sometimes overwhelming, and often intimidating.
Due to draconian security measures placed on Earth access, the USC chose to place their main base of operations in this sector. Those who reside here consider it fitting that the planet, named after the mythical god of war, has become home to the USC.
The jewel of Sol system and home to mankind, Earth. While many see similarities to the Argon homeworld, Earth holds grace and beauty that few could deny as being anything other than unique. For this and painful historical reasons, the AGI Task Force zealously guards the planet and the imposing orbital ring station, the Torus.
This sector is home to the disgraced family T'kr, who were held responsible for a tragic incident that destroyed a Split shipyard and killed five hundred Split. What stopped this family from losing all of its assets was the then Patriarch of All Split, using T'kr as a sign to all Split that such incidents will not be tolerated. Now the sector is home to all of the family's assets, and it has been only in recent years that the sector has been visited by other families for trade. The sector also marks the border for the Teladi 'fortune' system block, sectors that the Teladi use for production, also containing the stations that T'kr use as their main source of trade. The family's only destroyer patrols the system.
Originally discovered and claimed by the Paranid, Heretic's End was used primarily as a remote training area. Since the activation of the gate to Earth in this sector and the massive battle that ensued between the Kha'ak and a combined Terran and Commonwealth force, Terran forces have annexed this sector with little argument from the Paranid. The sector has become a buffer zone between Terran and non-Terran space, patrolled by a large contingent of Terran ships.
This crowded system produces high quality wares and resources for the neighbouring systems. In the past, the Goner sect used the orbital temple as a base in their search for the origins of sentient life throughout the known universe. Many spent their lives studying ancient legends and engaging in deep historical analysis that eventually lead to the existence of Earth being proven to be more than just a myth.
This system is home to the NMMC corporation, formerly known as PTNI. This corporation controls the supply of the rare mineral Nividium and has recently reformed its policies in an attempt to downplay accusations of illegal activity. The sector name has remained unchanged for historical reasons. Its factories produce high-quality weapons for the Teladi as well as other general resources for the two planets in this sector. The system is guarded by the NMMC's security arm as well as Teladi Company ships.
This system was once a Split mining outpost. One day a distress signal from the colony was intercepted by Argon Federation security operatives in Black Hole Sun. When they investigated they found the entire system destroyed, its planet a shattered, radioactive hell. There has been no official explanation from any government concerning this disaster although rumours suggest a Xenon super-weapon was to blame. Access to the system is now restricted. Pilots who passed though this system once reported a large ship in this system, but recently these reports have ceased. If this ship existed, its presence and location are currently unknown.
After a failed attempt at securing land from the Njy family, the Zyarth family had no choice but to look elsewhere. Rumours emerged over time that the Ryk family had discovered a new system which they were soon planning to occupy. However, because of a lack of resources, they kept such knowledge a closely guarded secret - or so they thought. Acting upon data collected from their spies, the Zyarth family moved in quickly and established a colony, much to the Ryk family's anger.
After establishing their primary system to the anger of the Ryk family, the Zyarth patriarch gained the friendship of the Njy family and secured resources to establish their second system. Zyarth's Dominion was formed bordering a dangerous Xenon system.
One of the most heavily entrenched of the Xenon sectors, 695 is surprisingly sparse in its population. Many of the core assets and components are presumably allocated higher priority in other Xenon-controlled sectors closer to borders of conflict.
A recent discovery, and one which caused some degree of concern, 627 shows signs of being the gateway to further Xenon sectors. Long-range scout vessels have yet to mark any confirmed transit vectors.
023 is known to be another core Xenon sector. Communications protocol handling and re-coding for ship A.I. is known to take place in many of the stations here. Intercept and Attack patrols are carried out by Xenon vessels of all classes, many only discovered recently.
Unmarked on all public-access navigational systems, until recently this sector simply did not exist. Rumours were ruthlessly quashed until Legend's Home was ready to be born; and so until then, OTAS perfected their military and technological might in secret. Their Core sector is now open, heavily defended, and still deeply engaged in Research and Development. Tread lightly.
The original name for this sector was Light of Hope, until the Xenon attacked many years ago. It was clear that the sectors patrols wouldn't hold out against further attacks, so the colony was prepared for evacuation using small transport ships. Backup from the Argon Military was sent; four Titan class Destroyers and two Colossus Carriers, complete with fighter wings. They were to escort the transport ships out of the system, but before they could get to the gate, Xenon ships jumped in and overwhelmed the fleet. All civilian ships escaped alongside a lone destroyer, the Challenger. Three years later, a joint Argon-Boron force took back Light of Hope and it was renamed Wastelands, reflecting the carnage and debris that the force found. Now cleared of that detritus and with the Xenon threat greatly diminished, its inhabitants strive to maintain a normal existence.
The Teladi marked this sector as a hub for all commerce involving mining and food production. Choosing not to invest too far too soon, further sector discoveries were sold to the Boron, gaining further profit from the trade lane created. Tears of Greed was born upon the countless Teladi who had invested heavily on further sector development, their only choice to return to their homeworlds broken and bankrupt.
The eternal story, of growth and development, profit and expansion; all of these things are the very essence of Teladi commerce. This Core sector specialises in high-tech goods and energy production. There are rumours that the story does not end within this region. Many will attest to the Teladi proverb that there is profit in exploration.
Fully militarised, all traffic within this sector is marked for intense scrutiny. Nominal access to Shipyard and Equipment Dock facilities are authorised once security clearance has been confirmed. Any interference with military affairs will be dealt with by lethal and overwhelming force.
The last great Duke once visited this sector. After a few short hours he collapsed and fell into unconsciousness. When he woke up he claimed he had visions of a great battle in this system between the Paranid and a strange alien race, now known to be the Kha'ak. The Great Duke decided to consult the monks at the Great Monastery on Paranid Prime in the valley of the setting star. His visions did not occur again and he was granted permission to set up a new temple in this system where he first had his vision. He died without ever knowing the true nature of his visions, or the horror that would follow.
This sector was once the furthest Paranid system from Paranid Prime and it held that title for several decades. Despite this, the Xaarist Priests ran Preacher's Refuge with strict religious fervour and propriety. Their quiet and devoted worker-monks produced exquisite jewellery, inspirational 'Xja' poetry and the very best in automated, semi-intelligent weapons. In recent times, the focus has shifted to sophisticated technology production and interspecies trade has boomed, but the religious extremism remains, hidden in the shadows.
Currently contested by both Pirate and Teladi forces, this sector is profitable and deadly in equal measure. Diplomacy is carried out with shields raised and targets locked. Your presence may be considered a threat to either side.
Providing further evidence that 'someone' can reconfigure jumpgate links, this sector was found during the Terran expansion into the galaxy, having previously gone undiscovered by Terran fleets hundreds of years ago. No further information exists regarding this sector.(Terran Unknown Sector 2)
Held by Pirate forces consumed with a deep and abiding hatred for the legend of Gunne, Gaian Star is bathed in the blood of countless Goner priests who attempted to turn the tide of aggression. Some Goner sects believe the spirit of Gunne himself turned the skies red in his rage at the loss of so many souls in his name.
Home to the Yaki, the most deadly and ruthless of pirates, Kailan Weaver founded this sector after the largest pirate offensive ever known against Split forces attempting to gain a permanent foothold. Her stunning victory, with calculated strikes that bore the mark of military precision, won her the honour and respect of the Split, and a sector now dedicated to her memory.
A known haven for pirate forces, the sector was recently discovered after an attack in Montalaar lead Argon security forces to their jump-point. The Argon continue to deploy forces in an effort to take this sector once and for all. Many believe the battle will last far longer than the Argon are willing to admit.
This dark system is located on the far edge of the Garenisk Void, a large area of space where no stars can form. The remnants of an ancient battle were found in this system by a Boron fleet on its first pass through this system. Subsequently many years of archaeology and recovery were undertaken with the assistance of the Argon. After the system was cleared of debris, Boron colonial ships were cleared to move in, but the jump into the system did not go as planned. On entry, they found themselves in the middle of a pirate ambush. The fourteen colonial passenger and freighter ships were destroyed with the capture of some smaller craft. Over two thousand Boron were killed. The pirates have since planted a large minefield in the hope of capturing other ships; travel through this system should be undertaken with great care.
Despite a growing Teladi presence in this sector, and plans to take over control, pirate forces in this sector simply don't care. Perhaps mindful that the primary commerce here involves narcotics, the Teladi are happy to take advantage of the situation.
Many believed Aldrin to be lost if not completely destroyed centuries ago. Now, the "Lost Colony", recovered from the void of space, is home to those who have made good use of surviving terraformer ships, still benevolent from their isolation. Their offering of secrets long-forgotten gives hope for the continued survival of all races.
This sector was once a quiet area, in which the only feature was the deactivated jumpgate drifting lifelessly in orbit of the planet Armstrong. With the growing Terran interest in the jumpgate, this area of space quickly transformed into a thriving hub where technology and knowledge are traded between the two peoples.(Aldrin 2)
This long-lost frontier sector was once part of the Terran drive to explore the gate network. It now bears the scars of rampant Terraformers who transformed the planet into an unforgiving wasteland, denying the colonial inhabitants a quick death.(Terran Unknown Sector 1)
New Portsmouth, the principal settlement of the planet Terranova, is still intact after the Terraformer war. Its population fled the planet soon after the first Terraformer entered the sector. After a battle in low orbit, the Terran ships managed to retreat to the next sector. The Terraformers destroyed only the planet's ecosystem and climate, curiously leaving artificial structures undamaged.(Terran Unknown Sector 3)
Once planned as a mining colony, this sector fell under the Terraformers' control early in the conflict. They quickly overwhelmed the colonising ships and began Terraforming the planet relentlessly until it was no longer suitable for life. Some of the Xenon in this sector show battle scars of Commonwealth origin, supporting the theory that they used the Hub to traverse between the Commonwealth and this Terran frontier region, where they evolved.
Originally held by the Boron, there remains an uneasy truce here. Several high-ranking members of Family Rhonkar, accused of unauthorised attempts to purge the sector of all Boron occupation, were placed on trial and summarily executed for genocide. While time has eased the pain of those who remember, forgiveness is far from forthcoming.
Long-range scout patrols from Cardinal's Domain ventured upon this sector at the same time as the arrival of a mining expedition from Aladna Hill. The resulting tensions did little but re-open old wounds. Few Paranid would deny the opportunity to fan the flames of a war brought over from the old world.
Caught between the expansion of both races, the Paranid hold this sector while facing continual incursions from the Argon. It serves as a place of rest for those known as The Fallen, priests who have lost their way amongst the stars. Redemption comes to all, in time.
Perdition's flames brought fear to the hearts of both Argon and Paranid, and fury and rage from both sides have quenched the firestorm that burned through this sector. Perdition's end may soon be near, but the fires of conquest still burn brightly.
This sector has been recently identified as a Kha'ak sector. Although several patrols have successfully navigated this sector, entering this sector is not recommended without heavy backup.
Those who enter here do so for two reasons alone. To kill or be killed. Executor squads routinely patrol, laying in wait for pilots escorted into the sector to face their final moments before being taken by the void. The outer rim is littered with the corpses and wreckage of the damned and the wretched.
Originally deemed to be impossible to settle due to deeply drifting nebulae, The Shallows remained largely unpopulated. With recent solar flares having helped to clear the nebulae, building has continued at greater depths. Both Split and Boron forces currently contest this area, both eager to regain lost ground.
Savaged by conflict and greed, this sector remains in turmoil. Internal power-struggles between pirate factions leave any entry to this sector one of great risk. Paranid attempts to cleanse this sector are frequent and forceful.
This sector, when discovered by the Paranid, was awash with Kha'ak. Paranid forces had daily skirmishes with them until one day, the Kha'ak completely disappeared from the sector, never to be seen there again.
This sector has been recently identified as a Kha'ak sector. Although several patrols have successfully navigated this sector, entering this sector is not recommended without heavy backup.
Benefiting from both the protection of the nearby Pirate Base, as well as business in the more illicit of wares, Bright Profit strikes a fine balance between conflict and trade. Skirmishes are rare, and usually due to intoxication of one kind or another.
Formed shortly after the claiming of the sector to the south, this sector was set up originally as a monastery. It provided a place for passing priests to pray and hold quiet meditation. Military forces were virtually non-existent during early settlement, leaving the monastery open to attack by raiding parties from the nearby Pirate sectors. The priests held their position in the safety of the temple caverns for several days before the Paranid managed to send a destroyer to protect its holy populace. The destroyer has now moved to the next sector to prevent such incursions into Paranid territory.
Thought to be the location of a Kha'ak Hive, many have speculated that this sector could be the main source of the recent Kha'ak attacks. Few pilots return from this sector alive.
The Teladi who settled this region chose to do so not entirely out of the desire for profit. Knowing all too many sectors flourished from under-handed deals and kick-backs, business here remains both noble and honest, for now at least.
Forging ahead with the combined strength of a mining and military operation, the Teladi have strengthened their foothold in the new colonies with this sector. Their plans however do not rest within these gates alone.
The Priest Duke brought this sector into being with only one thought. Overwhelming firepower. Heavily militarised, with both Shipyard and Equipment Dock facilities, it is both Citadel and Fortress. Your presence here will not go unnoticed.
In striking out against the growing conflict with the Split, Menelaus established this sector to be the first in the new colonies. A Core sector, specialising in technological and military output, hell hath no fury greater than a Queen's retribution.
The Boron have established this sector to take advantage of the resources needed for growth of military and technological industry and nearby sectors. Agricultural and mineral output is both secure and of considerable volume.
The Priest Xaar ordained this sector in clear understanding that the nearby nova was seen by many to be a gateway to higher dimensions. Deemed secure enough for a strong agricultural and mining operation, it also proved to be a gateway to the Split expansion, and a means by which to curtail further Boron growth.
One of the Split's more remote Core sectors with a moderate output of agricultural products. Military operations here serve as a base for the building conflict in nearby sectors. Tension with the Boron is already high and set to escalate.
The Split have chosen to maintain this sector as little more than a trench upon which to launch further attacks against the Boron in nearby sectors. Boron incursions are routine, as they struggle to regain control. There is little here that does not involve war or conquest.
The Boron colonised this sector with dreams of such magnificence even the Queen offered her blessings. Flourishing for a great while, such dreams indeed became reality until the Split discovered and gained control over the connecting sector. Trade turned to war and dreams once cherished were left faded and broken.
Specialising in food and power storage technology, Queen's Harbour offers a wide array of wares. It is used as a re-supply point for many major passenger transports, and on occasion, the Queen's own personal carrier.
Once a haven for the Queen herself, Menelaus no longer retreats here in times of trouble. Conflict in nearby sectors has borne a wealth of agriculture, high-tech goods and military hardware needed to supply the war front.
Once thought by the Paranid to be a portal to the Ancients, such beliefs were quickly quashed in the realisation that Pirate signalling beacons were the cause of their delusion. After an embarrassing retreat, this sector became the domain of the lawless.
Holding the Strong Arms HQ, Thyn's Excavation provides funds and resources for the ongoing conflict in Veil of Delusion. Naturally this has extended to arms shipments wherever else they are needed. For the Split, the price of war is never too high.
This sector began life in relative peace, both sides sharing resources equally. Open conflict between the Split and Boron soon changed that. Now a mire of lawlessness, the Boron no longer have the resources needed to simultaneously engage both Pirate and Split forces.
The discovery of this intriguing sector has been a welcome distraction for the neighbouring Argon, who are facing conflict. Each star in this trinary system has a distinctively different composition as well as a very active solar cycle. Initial attempts to build stations in this sector failed when violent solar activity forced an evacuation. The lone planet is a barren world, gravitationally locked with the central star. Studies of its surface will hopefully answer questions about this sector's past and suggest colonisation options for the future. The Argon Government has warned against building new stations or visiting in modestly-shielded ships, for fear of another solar event. Some entrepreneurs, looking to exploit the energy of the suns, have completely ignored any warnings.
With the Argon potentially entering a long and drawn out war, they quickly claimed this sector for its resources. While not out of reach of Terran forces, military presence is low until additional infrastructure is constructed. Many colonists have called this reckless and count themselves lucky that the Terrans have not used the opportunity to gain a foothold away from the front line.
This newly colonised system excited many Boron as its primary planet matched many of the criteria they associate with paradise. Its warm, vast oceans are almost unmatched anywhere in the Boron Kingdom and even Argon tourists have begun to flock to its pristine beaches. Several deep water surveys have been launched with one being lost under mysterious circumstances, leading to the spread of sea monster tales by some Argon. This has done little to stem the tide of visitors.
With a notable asteroid field, Teladi managers expected a swarm of opportunistic miners and corporations to lay claim to this sector's many riches. Instead, they found expansion unexpectedly slow. Analysts have proposed possible causes such as the rise of mineral-rich Albion, the over-expansion of NMMC or the more profitable business of gun-running in the Argon-Terran war.
As the furthest Paranid sector from Paranid Prime, colonisation of this sector was slow but methodical. With the Argon also colonising a nearby sector, joint military exercises were proposed to the Paranid in an attempt to improve relations and efficiency in working together. Early into the second exercise, a Terran scout party jumped into the sector, shortly followed by a strike force. The joint Argon and Paranid fleet rotated their forces to contain the superior Terran ships until they were forced to jump back to Terran space. The exercises were considered a success and no further major Terran attacks have since been attempted.
With the Xenon advancing, and the loss of the gate connections to the west, Family Zyarth finds itself running out of territory and resources. This sector has been heavily mined by Family Zyarth to support ship production and the remains of its economy. Fortunately the asteroids in this sector are abundant enough to support the Split in their immediate campaign to defend against the Xenon and eventually push them back.
After having been completely wiped out by the Kha'ak, the remains here had been left untouched as a silent memorial to the countless souls who lost their lives. Plans to rebuild were held back by the fear of further reprisals, but now that the Kha'ak have been mostly wiped from the face of the known universe, Argon officials have decided to give a green light to rebuilding. While this sector may come to life and flourish once again, the scar of the tragedy runs deep and will not be forgotten.
This sector has long been known for its pirate activity, but is now openly claimed by a local pirate clan leader. That this is happening on the doorstep of a core Teladi sector has led to speculation that the Teladi CEO may actually be funding the pirate clan. Rumours suggest that the sector was offered to the clan as payment for the clan's loyalty. This clan is well known for its raids on high-value cargo traders. The Teladi, of course, deny all such accusations, claiming that there would be no profit in such a deal.
With Albion's latent mineral wealth, it was no surprise to see several mining corporations clamouring for mining rights. Plutarch Mining Corporation became the front-runner in the contest with their vast funds and readily available fleet of ships. Essentially becoming partners with Jonferco in the Albion endeavour, Plutarch was to showcase the Highway project as a vision of the future, improving both social and economic aspects for any system in which they are installed. The Highway research and technology itself has been withheld from Plutarch, much to the dismay of its top officials.
Bordering a dangerous Xenon system, this sector satisfied the glory-seeking Split for many years until the minor skirmishes turned into a fight for survival. As a major Xenon fleet entered the sector, the west gate mysteriously shut-down, cutting off both the supply lines and escape route.
With the Xenon approaching, the Split found themselves falling back into this desolate system. Supplies are only delivered by jumpdrive or freighter captains mad enough to brave the Xenon forces.
Discovered during recent exploration, Albion was identified by JSDD as one of several sectors in the running to be their new Headquarters, where they could conduct research into more advanced and potentially unstable technology away from stringent Argon oversight and without placing innocent lives at risk. Following the deployment of several Jonferco-built Trans-Orbital Accelerators, the sector was rechristened Albion Alpha, and for undisclosed reasons the gate was towed to the region now known as Albion Gamma.(||)The sector now houses a mixture of high-tech factories and mines. A further facility also resides within this sector; however little information is available due to highly restricted access. This has fuelled numerous rumours about this station's purpose, the most widespread being that potentially-illegal AI research is conducted there with the knowledge and consent of the Argon government.
This region was chosen by JSDD as the second sector within the Albion system for settlement. This is most likely due to the slightly higher solar intensity which has led to this area providing most of the energy for Jonferco's operation in the system, fuelling their rapid expansion. In addition to power production facilities, this sector also houses a similar mixture of high and low tech facilities to Albion Alpha, which allows the sector to be largely self-reliant.
Located in a vast, dense ring of debris, the Albion system quickly attracted significant interest from several mining corporations and Jonferson Space Dynamics Division. After heavy mining depleted the most easily accessible resources, Jonferco began to change the face of Albion with their Highway project. Highways promise to create a network of fast travel lanes throughout the entire system. Still under construction, until these devices are operational the gaps between developed regions are linked by Trans-Orbital Accelerators.(||)As the gateway to the Albion system, this sector is heavily patrolled by Jonferco, Plutarch and Argon vessels.
This sector was claimed under the Military Act by the Argon military authorities, to serve as a buffer for the heavily-militarised Sector M148 beyond the South gate. It is imperative for the Argon to hold M148 given previous Terran advances.
Ruined by dreams of avarice, this sector was originally claimed by a Teladi entrepreneur, eager to expand to ever greater frontiers. But within his investments at Grand Exchange lay the seeds of despair that eventually led to this sector being placed under auction, in the hope that salvation would be financial, if nothing more.
This sector was ignored for a long time. Now, with the ongoing war and the associated increase in smuggling and looting activities by pirate raiders, it was just a matter of time before it would become home to one of the local pirate clans.
Not much is known about what goes on in this sector. It is used as a safe haven by those who don't want to be found. Both pirates and the authorities avoid this sector for the most part.
This serene sector was populated by the Boron to support the local economy with agricultural goods. While the nearby pirate sector may represent a threat, this sector is considered to be one of the safest; a perfect place for relaxation.
This sector has recently been populated by hard-line Paranid religious fanatics who chose to leave Unholy Descent after what they considered to be the sector's decline into unholiness. There is a tense and xenophobic atmosphere in the sector and very little communication exists with its neighbour.
This sector has only recently become part of the Paranid Empire. It hosts Paranid citizens who feel that a life of exclusion and exile are the only true way to enlightenment. The Paranid in this sector have little time for lesser beings and even less inclination to have any dealings with them. This is reflected by the distinct lack of trading opportunities in the sector.
This little-known sector has been occupied by the Paranid Pirate Duke and his army, known for their coldness and cruelty. Only a very few ships are allowed to enter the sector, and only a few of those dare to do business with the Duke.
This sector, claimed only very recently, is the result of a Boron Royal Research Institute effort to scout for rare minerals in asteroid-rich sectors. Given its proximity to Boron territory and the absence of any objections from other interested parties, a major mineral survey was set in motion. Unfortunately the effort did not pay off and no particularly valuable minerals were found. It is now home to a small mining colony in the hopes that at least some of the costs can be recouped.
In times of war, destruction, changing gate connections and disappearing sectors, this particular sector marks something different. Found in a new part of space unknown to the various races and so untouched by their altercations, this sector was found while trying to forge connections between other known parts of the galaxy. However, its actual location in the universe remains unknown. Its appearance is as enigmatic as its discovery and location. A glowing blue field crosses the sector and illuminates all of its planets with its ethereal glow. These planets may hide unimaginable treasures. This is the perfect location for making a new beginning in undisturbed peace, or for launching a surprise assault on an enemy from a completely unexpected location. Only time will tell its use and ultimate fate.
