This sector is notable for the fact that before the Jump Gate network went down, experts observed an unusually high number of active warp anomalies in the area. The high frequency of such occurrences could indicate an inherent instability in this region of space that might prove dangerous someday. If, however, science could learn to harness this cosmic volatility, the practical applications of this phenomenon would be sure to change space travel significantly. For this reason, the sector remains a point of interest to scientists, and experiments are occasionally conducted, even though the intensity and frequency of anomalies seems to have decreased significantly over time.
The Teladi species' long lifespan and previous experience of being cut off from their homeworld allowed them a uniquely sedate perspective on the Jump Gate shutdown. Nevertheless, being denied access to other systems for trading purposes, and the resulting lack of profits, weighed heavily on their collective psyche. Long before the shutdown, the Teladi Company's board of directors drafted a comprehensive dossier of business rules to act as a guide to the Chairmen supervising their systems. These business rules covered, among other things, how to conduct business in case of such a disruptive contingency. Following these guidelines, the Company was able to scale down business to meet demand and minimise loss by making redundancies. Some of the Teladi workforce who found themselves jobless as a result, would eventually join the ranks of the Scale Plate Pact.
Goldminer's Dream, this system's primary planet, is home to the Teladi Company's main financial centre. The system's namesake skyscraper, 'The Grand Exchange', is used to coordinate trade throughout the universe. While repeated Kha'ak attacks and the Jump Gate shutdown temporarily slowed down communication, regular activity was eventually resumed. The Grand Exchange skyscraper constitutes a potential critical vulnerability which, if exploited by hostile entities, could debilitate the economy. However, the Teladi Company is well aware of this, and has put insurmountable protections into place to safeguard the heart of their financial empire.
Hanging in low orbit of Haarii, a Teladi Company executive wished to see the sector and entire system recolonised after it was rediscovered during the Jump Gate realignment. Well-connected and relatively secure from all major threats in the Jump Gate network, this sector was a perfect target for a colonisation program, for the Teladi Company to prove that despite the hardship the Teladi had faced in the wake of recent historical events, they were still united and strong, and able to generate a profit.
After mysterious hints by a certain non-profit organisation appeared around the outskirts of Hewa's Twin soon after the Jump Gate realignment, some Teladi took it upon themselves to search the network and document any and all further clues they could find in the official publications that had just begun to spring up as part of the Explorers Guild portfolio. When one particularly excitable individual claimed to have found strange and intricate markings on asteroids in an as yet unclaimed gateway system, the hunt was on. For some time, it became commonplace for young Teladi to make a trip to the hunting grounds at least once and add their exaggerated discovery stories to their culture's collective memory. Unfortunately, it was inevitable that at some point an entomologist would visit the sector and, with great regret, inform the treasure hunters that the asteroid markings, while spectacularly well preserved and absolutely invaluable to the scientific community, were left by migrating spacefly swarms which had burrowed their way out of these asteroids to begin their search for a new home. The sudden wave of disappointment quenched the spirit of adventure and rapidly depopulated the system, save for a handful of colonies which had already been established by especially eager prospectors who weren't too keen on voiding the fruits of their commitment just yet. Over time, these settlements grew, and as the original reason for their arrival faded into utter insignificance, some members of the communities whose livelihoods were founded on the detritus of a system-wide treasure hunt realised that, through them, whoever left those initial hints all over the network had already achieved their goal. Years after the rush, a convoy of refugees from Scale Plate Green would arrive in the largely abandoned space, already charted meticulously and filled with decrepit stations, to make their home.
Despite its easily accessible location and large amounts of passing traffic, this gateway sector has rarely turned heads. An exception came when Teladi prospectors, seeking to expand the thriving mining business in Grand Exchange, discovered bountiful asteroid fields in the far distance, and subsequently began to campaign for the installation of a Superhighway to reach these promising areas deeper within the system. Apart from this interlude, the sector always seemed to lie dormant, just waiting for ambitious entrepreneurs or military masterminds to establish themselves in the almost depressingly empty and barren, yet calm and inviting vastness of its space.
Despite its easily accessible location and large amounts of passing traffic, this gateway sector has rarely turned heads. An exception came when Teladi prospectors, seeking to expand the thriving mining business in Grand Exchange, discovered bountiful asteroid fields in the far distance, and subsequently began to campaign for the installation of a Superhighway to reach these promising areas deeper within the system. Apart from this interlude, the sector always seemed to lie dormant, just waiting for ambitious entrepreneurs or military masterminds to establish themselves in the almost depressingly empty and barren, yet calm and inviting vastness of its space. As of late, any such newcomers would have to make arrangements with the Pirate Duke Reborn and his faithful band of insurgents, who have selected this location as an ideal base of operations for their invasions into Paranid territory.
When the system was disconnected from the other Argon Federation territories, it became apparent to those in charge that the Argon military supply chain was more fragile than previously presumed. Black Hole Sun IV's economy was built on resupplying the military and serving as a trading hub, so it inevitably faltered. Less prominently, it was also a hub for engineers developing new ships. During the shutdown, focus was shifted almost exclusively to research and development. Lacking steady income, many companies overextended in the hopes of selling their ship designs to the Argon Federation once contact was re-established. For some the gamble paid off, but many others went bankrupt.
While the Black Hole Sun system found itself in a comparatively stable situation after the Jump Gate shutdown, thanks to the cessation of Xenon incursions, the people of this sector are still subject to frequent piracy. Before the shutdown, pirates used to go out of their way to take upon themselves the arduous journey into the system, enticed by the rich pickings its remote position and instability provided. Nowadays, cut off from the other Argon systems and situated in close proximity to Teladi space, this sector makes for an even more attractive target.
Accepted across Argon society as one of the most beautiful sectors to be discovered in any iteration of the Jump Gate network, the sector of Silent Witness in which The Ring highway network has been placed is also bountiful with asteroid fields and gas nebulas. Though not densely populated, as the primary connection between Argon and Teladi space, it remains a busy sector, far more explored than other sectors in Silent Witness. It also remains the only sector in-system to be claimed by any government or organisation; other sectors left so far untouched by the Argon Federation.
Many of the disputes between the Paranid and the Argon before the outbreak of the Paranid Civil War occurred here, as it is the sector in which the Gates to The Void and True Sight are both situated. Though the Antigone Republic have worked hard to clear the evidence of their turmoil away, much remains, and many still come to Flashpoint to honour the memory of the dead. This sector also represents The Republic's strongest economic sector, as it is the only one that is part of The Ring. It is the most highly populated sector claimed by the faction.
The area around this sector's Gate used to be the main point from which trading goods, produced on the farming planet Ianamus Zura, were shipped off to be sold in various markets throughout the universe. Ministry of Finance patrols are always trying to keep business peaceful. However, since the Gate shutdown, the Ministry of Finance's main focus has changed significantly. Instead of fighting off corporate corruption and protecting the legitimacy of the Credit as a universal currency, they now put their focus on guarding the space around the gate, to make sure the Xenon do not invade Teladi space.
The Teladi homeworld of Ianamus Zura was long lost to the spacefaring Teladi people. As a result, a few cultural and economic aberrations can be observed between the two groups. Whereas the entirety of the spacefaring Teladi population is female, Ianamus Zura is notable for being home to both male and female Teladi. The presence of Teladi males results in a stronger, more supportive family network. This allows for more individual downtime. That time is spent, more often than not, in the pursuit of arts and philosophy, which their spacefaring cousins have very little patience for. The Ianamus Zura governing system is more akin to a parliamentary democracy than the Teladi Company's corporate structure. Since Ianamus Zura's connection to the rest of the universe was severed for a long time, the Gate shutdown did not affect its inhabitants as severely. In fact, the planet thrived in isolation. When it was reconnected again, these Teladi found themselves in close proximity to Xenon. They were not well-equipped to deal with such an imminent threat, but with assistance from the Ministry of Finance they were eventually able to adapt to the new reality, after some initial struggles.
Due to the system's house of worship, many Paranid pilgrims pass through this sector, some bearing artefacts of religious significance and value beyond compare. This makes the sector an attractive mark for criminals and pirates, who can use the superhighway as a convenient getaway to quickly slip into less-regulated space. Should these criminals be caught, the Godrealm of the Paranid shows no mercy to the offenders. Their code of law is among the strictest in the known universe. Because of this, pirate raids are incredibly risky, but they also promise great reward. These incursions usually happen within the blink of an eye, and can be overwhelming to the victims of the pirate raids.
The sector closest to the planet Ak within the Hewa's Twin system, this is perhaps the only sector in the system that can be regarded as truly 'busy'. Home to one of the Teladi Company's early prototype Habitat-class superstations, it sees regular traffic both from the planet surface and the neighbouring Trinity Sanctum system, and also has the highest population of the system. This makes the sector the closest thing to a trading hub the Teladi Company can ask for, while they try to convince the Godrealm of the Paranid to allow wares such as spaceweed through Paranid space.
This sector is home to a few pockets of natural resources and a largely unexplored space that sees traffic heading towards the more profitable Hewa's Twin V or military vessels headed to Company Regard. Even though the sector does not hold much future economic value, it is on the traffic lane towards Ak and remains a beautiful area of space, and as such the Teladi Company have marked it as a possible tourist and rest-and-relaxation destination to be developed in the near future.
Once the heart of Scale Plate Green's strong economy, this sector contains many natural resources that can no longer be accessed due to small Xenon fleets protecting both the Gate from Company Regard and the superhighway onwards through the system.  Though Teladi scouts continue to keep a constant eye on the colony they so desperately want back, shipyards keeping the Xenon fleets in supply mean it is still too dangerous to consider a counter offensive. Until that offensive is possible, the wreck fields of Scale Plate Green I serve as a strong reminder as to why the Xenon should not be underrated.
Home to the corporate sector of the Teladi Company's business in Scale Plate Green, this sector was perhaps the least prepared for the Xenon incursion that hit the system so hard. With most of the Teladi and Argon forces already struggling to maintain their defence in Scale Plate Green I, and the Split refusing to send more aid after their contingent was annihilated in the second wave of attacks, many of the stations were destroyed before the people on them knew what hit them, and civilian ships in the area had no choice but to flee or be eliminated as well.
In 803 NT, the Alliance of the Word recorded the Jump Gate connection from this previously unexplored sector to Sacred Relic as the first to reopen after the Gate Shutdown. For nearly twenty years, the Gate network would unpredictably disconnect and reroute gates before it stabilised. During this time, developing this sector was a risky undertaking. All expeditions had to be self-sufficient, as they could not rely on the Gate to remain open once they passed through. Additionally, Accelerators had to be set up to reach required resources far from the Jump Gate. Nevertheless, the Paranid took that risk and sent expeditions into this system. They were arguably well-rewarded, as the expeditions helped later development and the sector turned into an important crossroads in the Gate network.
After the initial Xenon assault on Emperor Mines, and with as many civilians rescued as possible, Olmanckarsat turned their attention to protecting other core Paranid systems from the Xenon invasion. Calling in reinforcements from Paranid Prime, Olmanckarsat headed straight for Xenon Sector 101, predicting that the Xenon had launched everything they had at Emperor Mines. The Xenon were quick to follow the fleet back through the Jump Gate and Olmanckarsat immediately ordered the destruction of the Jump Gate on the other side. The Paranid fleet were trapped in Xenon territory, presumably destroyed, but Paranid space was safe.
When the North Gate of Emperor Mines opened up into Xenon Sector 101, the Paranid core systems were caught completely off-guard. The Xenon struck with lightning speed, crippling all Paranid defences within minutes and systematically wiping out everything in-system. It was only due to the quick thinking of Olmanckarsat, a Paranid fleet commander, that any escape was possible at all. Recognising that the crippled Paranid fleet could do very little against a superior enemy, Olmanckarsat ordered the Paranid to instead kite the enemy away from stations and civilian traffic, destroying small pockets of Xenon before moving on to the next target.
This sector holds the last known location of the single capital ship that carried the Terran settlers to Atiya's Misfortune, the Inquisitors' Wrath. It was here that the Terrans are said to have first run into the Xenon threat that forced them to flee the system, with the Inquisitors' Wrath almost immediately destroyed as smaller combat ships and transporters fled the burning wreck of the M1 Tokyo-class carrier. So heavy is the Xenon presence in this sector that no Argon or Paranid scout has been able to recover a full report of the area.
Though stories of what happened in Atiya's Misfortune are yet to be confirmed, with no trace of the Terran colonisation attempt left by the Xenon, it is said that the Terrans' escape from the system was made possible by two highly skilled fighter pilots, Darayavahush and Atiya Hakim. When Atiya was killed as the two pilots, the last to leave the system, fled, Darayavahush - her twin - fell into a deep state of bitterness and depression, disappearing from society and travelling the Jump Gate network, as it was before the shutdown, never to be seen again.
Lying in the shadow of a massive gas giant, this sector is the home of the Hatikvah Free League, which set out during the Jump Gate shutdown and their subsequent realignment to find a new home for themselves, settling in this sector. As the home of these settlers, and to many Argon Federation citizens wishing to profit from the quickly growing economy, this sector has one of the highest populations in Argon space.
After accepting that the Hatikvah Free League had first right to colonisation in Hatikvah's Choice after their long trek across the Jump Gate network, the Argon Federation quickly explored other areas of the system in order to their dire need for more space as more and more Jump Gates reconnected to the network. This sector was believed to hold the most promise for a colony, located deep in the systems asteroid field and with plenty of space for expansion.
This is a quiet sector, situated on the edge of the sphere of influence belonging to Morning Star III. It is sparsely populated and its traffic usually consists of those travelling from the planet to other Argon systems and mining ships on their way to the asteroid fields above Morning Star IV.
The uncovered passages of She t'Tharka tell that it was in this sector that the Split ships - mostly civilian transporters and supply ships - desperately attempting to flee 'The Fade' were systematically cut down, destroyed one by one until none remained. It is unknown if any of the Split, including She, survived, as her final passages have not yet been found. Despite the dangers this sector presents, with permanent electro-magnetic nebulae that cripple ship shields, the Xenon defend this sector with an almost fervent vigour, with entire fleets often defending both the Jump Gate and the superhighway to Tharka's Cascade XVII.
It is here that reports from Argon Federation scouts begin to conflict with the She t'Tharka passages found above Tharka's Cascade XV. No evidence now exists of any conflict started against the Split colonists of Tharka's Cascade, and though one passage states that the planet was home to a colony of around one thousand Split, observations made of the planet from space seem to suggest far more activity. Scouting reports have even claimed movement on the planet's surface, from some kind of machinery - however, these reports have been unable to be verified.
This sector was charted by the Paranid during the isolation of the first Pious Mists expedition. They logged their findings for later Paranid to benefit from, but had to abandon their mission due to lack of resources and equipment. Development only started after the Godrealm of the Paranid reconnected with this system. In the early years of its development this sector stood out due to mismanagement. Investigations into missing funds and resources, and even personnel, proved to be fruitless, but seemingly put an end to such incidents.
Coming from Pious Mists II, this was the first sector that the newly arrived Paranid focussed on developing. It was only after the Accelerator connection was established that the engineering fleet learned about the Jump Gate shutdown in this system that had left them stranded and disconnected from the Godrealm of the Paranid. When the engineers rejoined their brethren in Pious Mists II, an ambitious Duke was already in control of the first fleet. Despite the looming imperative of establishing self-sufficiency in this still largely unexplored system, they fought a violent conflict over the nature of their government. The Paranid loyal to the Godrealm overthrew the self-proclaimed Duke and emerged victorious. The survivors tried to carry out their mission, but due to the scarcity of functioning equipment following the conflict, they were forced into hibernation in cocoons. One watcher stayed awake to endure until the Gates reactivated and reunified this expedition with the Godrealm, making sure nothing unforeseen would harm their sleeping brethren. But when the Gate reactivated, the Godrealm found this watcher dead and only learned the expedition's fate from their logs. The cocoons, however, were never found. The pious Paranid of the first expedition are still believed to be hibernating somewhere in this system.
With an impressive view of the planet Ikssaar and its moon, Haarri, this sector has only recently been claimed by the Teladi Company and is yet to be thoroughly explored. The Teladi Company hope to turn the sector into a haven for farming and agriculture, but have first focused on clearing the area of wreckage left behind by the Xenon invasion prior to the Jump Gate shutdown. Colonisation of the sector is currently slow, though its relative security gives the Company confidence that the situation will improve.
Though many of the exchanges between the Paranid and the Argon in Second Contact occurred in Flashpoint, perhaps the biggest actually occurred here. The battle was won because of the snap decision made by Fleet Admiral Siy Keswen to launch an offensive against the Paranid, still preparing their forces on the outskirts of the system. The battle proved difficult, with the Paranid outnumbering the then fledgling Antigone Republic fleet, but Keswen was able to pull his people through, and the Argon were able to force the Paranid to flee back towards True Sight, giving the Antigone another day of respite.
After the Battle at Second Contact VII, the Antigone Argon were safely able to colonise this sector, for the surprise halt in fighting caused by Admiral Keswen's brave attack. The sector has since become a small haven for the Antigone Republic - one that they are incredibly proud of. Rich with natural resources and within touching distance of the moon, Icon, from which you can be swiftly transported to the planet aptly named Sanctuary, the sector has seen a lot of growth since the start of the Paranid Civil War, and many hope it remains so when the conflict ends.
Set against a backdrop of blue-green nebulae, this has been one of the sectors hardest hit by the Paranid blockade of Teladi goods being ferried across Trinity Sanctum. Too far away from the planet Ak to receive direct supply, the sector is often seen as a sector to travel through, as opposed to stay in. It can sometimes see a lot of traffic, particularly from miners on their way to Hewa's Twin V, but the sector holds a low population and, as such, the Teladi Company are targeting it for development in the future.
When it became obvious that the Godrealm of the Paranid would not simply let the Teladi Company transport wares such as spaceweed through Trinity Sanctum to Teladi space surrounding it, the Scale Plate Pact quickly jumped at the opportunity to smuggle these wares through the system instead, taking them not just to Teladi space, but further to Argon and Paranid territory too. These operations made it necessary to set up a base of operations on the quieter side of the blockade, and The Cove, explored but not claimed by the Teladi Company, presented the perfect place for this headquarters.
This sector has been earmarked by the Teladi Company as a potentially lucrative asteroid field and is located on the very outskirts of the solar region of Ak. It is famed for the discovery of a data slab found while exploring the sector, reading in eggspeak, "This is the gateway to adventure's promise. Have fun! ISNF." Though Teladi who live on Ak itself have little reason to travel this far out, there is a small and growing community of miners and farmers that have made their home here because of the security and room for development.
This sector boasts plenty of natural resources that attract the attention of numerous corporations. However, most do not dare establish a presence here because it is not under the protection of any government. It is mostly desolate, save for the occasional opportunist looking for riches outside of regulated space. That alluring promise of easy profits also comes along with the hardships of keeping pirates at bay, but for some rare, brave entrepreneurs, it proves well worth the risk.
Precious few entrepreneurs are daring enough to venture this far out from civilised society, knowing well what manner of hostilities they are likely to encounter. This place is home only to the most hardened of them, looking to turn a profit in the absence of law or regulated competition. To survive here, among the cutthroats and the wreckage they leave in their wake, means bearing witness to the deafening silence that turns honest men cruel.
Lying in the shadow of Morning Star IV, this sector is located in an asteroid field orbiting the satellite; a popular location for miners looking to exploit the rich yields of ore, silicon and ice to be found throughout. Another sector that is not heavily populated in of itself, Morning Star IV is likely to see heavy development in coming years as the Federation tries further to grow its economy by building more refinement facilities directly in mineral regions themselves, generating more trade within the sector.
The capital of the Godrealm of the Paranid, this sector is the starting point for a vast array of military operations. Most of these campaigns are fielded against the Holy Order of the Pontifex, and many of the pilgrims that traverse this system, looking to pay a visit to the holy site, find themselves being drafted to fight the perceived heretics. During the Jump Gate shutdown, before the Paranid people descended into vicious civil war, Trinity Sanctum VII was also home to many groups looking to re-establish contact between systems. While these efforts seem less important in the face of war, the Alliance of the Word is still a presence in the sector.
According to a recently released annual report of the Teladi Company, a number of early readings could, under certain circumstances, be interpreted to indicate a faint flow in the Turquoise Sea nebula. This revelation, apparently staggering to some individuals, has led to a new surge in non-scientific theories, including one which suggests that a current originating on the nearby moon might be the reason for the bluish haze that encases part of this system. Notwithstanding a striking lack of evidence of settlements on this particular celestial body, wild stories of secret mining facilities, ancient technology and gaseous alien life have already begun to circulate, and the Teladi Company has registered a sudden but welcome rise in the sales of resource probes. If nothing else, this newfound fascination for the otherwise-secluded sector serves to provide rogue entrepreneurs with ample cover to set up operations.
According to one popular theory, Turquoise Sea once contained an illicit production facility, hidden away behind the swirling clouds spewing from its very own chimneys. Apart from offering a convenient narrative regarding the downfall of yet another Scale Plate Pact cartel, this story also aligns with the bodily reactions of the earliest explorers. Soon after the sector had rejoined the known network, a group of Boron enthusiastically arrived in search of a potential gate connection to their lost homeworld. Upon entering the curious nebula, they reportedly drifted into a state of contemplative melancholy, induced by hallucinatory vapors permeating through their ship's olfactory sensor membrane. After returning to Teladi space, the explorers spoke little about what they had encountered, other than to claim that the "thin veil of reality" supposedly hid a "world in blue-magenta, flecked with pink". It is said that this transcendent experience inspired the composition of a commemorative song.
The Asteroid Belt is the threshold of the Terran Protectorate's domain. It is a sector bustling with miners and traders, scrambling to make a living. While visitors coming from outside Sol are tolerated by the Protectorate, the military keeps a watchful eye on all proceedings, and their oppressive presence can sometimes be sufficient to intimidate prospective business partners into avoiding the Sol system entirely if they can afford to do so. Of course, the military's cautious disposition is not without reason. Since this is the sector facing the rest of the network, it is the one most likely to suffer Xenon incursions and pirate raids.
Mars has assumed a special position within the Sol system, as the only major planetary settlement other than Earth. Its residents live mainly in Twelvetowns, a megalopolis in Valles Marineris, which, being home to an estimated 120 million inhabitants, is the largest continuous settlement in the Sol system. High above this settlement, a breathable atmosphere was established using a particle layer, which also protects the surface from the Sun's radiation and keeps its temperature steady. The space around Mars is also of vital importance to the Terran military. Previously home to the USC, the military industry in this sector is responsible for some of the most respected ship designs in the Terran fleet. These days it is still the base of operations for the Terran Protectorate's war efforts, and since it is the outermost sector with access restrictions, it also serves as a barrier between those regions of Sol that are accessible to the majority, and the more well-guarded, gated sectors surrounding Earth.
Venus is the link between Mars and Earth and, as such, sees extensive traffic from Earth-based organisations looking to move their products to Mars, and beyond towards the outskirts of the Sol system. This proximity to Earth makes the orbit of Venus an attractive location for well-connected settlers looking to earn a living by atmospheric farming and trading with Earth; this despite the harsh winds enveloping Venus posing a unique challenge to continued survival. The planet's hostile environment fosters a particularly gruff disposition in the resident population, so it comes as little surprise that those who cannot sustain themselves through farming often join the Protectorate military.
Deep within Sol lies the Terran homeworld and cradle of humanity, Earth, from where humankind first ventured out into space. Terran civilisation created the original Terraformer fleets, which later evolved to become the Xenon, and built their own Jump Gates before stumbling upon the existing Jump Gate network; deeds unparalleled within the Community of Planets. The safety of Sol was always the prime Terran mandate. Under the United Space Command Earth was guarded by the Torus Aeternal, an imposing orbital ring station. Now, as only wreckage of the Torus Aeternal remains, the Terran Protectorate safeguards Earth and its surrounding space with decentralised patrols and access restrictions. Even regular Sol citizens can be denied passage, if they lack the Protectorate Inner Core Access Licence.
The Moon's cratered surface bears witness to the first tentative steps taken by humankind in their journey to the stars. As the stepping stone between Earth and the rest of the Sol system, it also holds a position of great strategic importance. As part of the Protectorate's zero-tolerance policy towards unauthorised approach to Earth, it is the first sector requiring a Protectorate Inner Core Access Licence to enter. Naturally enough, because of the the Torus incident, the Moon is heavily policed by Terran Protectorate patrols, to ensure that the Moon stays off-limits, even to most normal Sol citizens.
Within the Sol system, Mercury is the closest planet to its sun. With no atmosphere to speak of, and permanently exposed to solar winds, this planet is unprotected from both the cold temperatures of space during the night and the scorching fires of the sun during the day. Too expensive for habitation, Mercury remains only of scientific interest.
Visible in Earth's night sky, Jupiter was known to the Terrans long before they ventured into space. This gas giant's enormous mass, greater than that of all the other planets in Sol combined, affects orbits, numerous asteroids and is still used by Terran deep space drone missions for gravitational slingshots. The planet's upper atmosphere harbours not only great storms, subject to climatic studies and weather control experimentation, but also a wide array of semi-organic lifeforms.
The imposing, yet beautiful, planet Saturn is the planet furthest removed from Earth that can still be observed from there with the naked eye. As such, it has always held a special place in the hearts of the Terran people, even before they were able to make their homes among the stars. Historically, Saturn hosted a Research Station under joint ATF and USC command. Their focus was the identification and analysis of potential threats to Terran security, especially those posed by outside species and technologies. When the Sol system fell back into the isolation and the Terran government reorganised itself, the assignment of threat assessment was gradually shifted to the Mars-based Terran Secret Service. In the aftermath of the Torus incident, the Terran government was keen to severely limit access to Earth by travellers and workers from all over the universe, so Saturn now acts as the administrative hub of the Sol system.
Titan is the largest of Saturn's many moons. Contentious proposals to terraform Titan in order to make it habitable for humans, have been put forward several times, but to date the potential benefits have yet to be shown to outweigh the immense cost. Since this sector is only connected to Saturn and not to any other part of the Sol system, it does not see as much traffic as many other areas.
This ice giant is encircled by two sets of thin, dark-coloured rings. It is theorised that the pressure and temperature within Uranus's mantle has resulted in an ocean of liquid diamond, and rainfalls of solid diamonds are therefore a regular occurrence. However, all attempts to pierce the planet's atmosphere to verify this theory have proven both fruitless. The space surrounding Uranus has some potential despite its remote location, far from the Sol system's core, but that potential remains unfulfilled, so it is home only to those who do not have better alternatives available to them.
This gas giant was named for the Roman god of the sea, in part at least because of its stunning azure colour. Its shimmering surface has enticed many Terran tourists to visit and take in the sights for themselves. As the planet furthest removed from Sol, its orbit marks the threshold of the vast and relatively uninhabited emptiness of the Kuiper Belt. Its remote location was also the reason why Neptune was chosen as the location for the third gate to be created by Terran engineers. Its intended function was to re-establish contact with Terran colonies outside the Sol system, in an attempt to maintain some influence over Commonwealth politics. As a result of hosting this additional gate, the sector also came to serve as the logical point of origin for the Pioneer Initiative, which was sent out to further develop Brennan's Triumph and the outer rim of Sol, and which would eventually evolve into the Segaris Pioneers.
The dwarf planet Pluto is the largest object in the Kuiper Belt and, as such, was the obvious choice for the establishment of a base of operations for Kuiper Belt-based mining corporations. After it was discovered that the neighbouring Oort Cloud was occupied by renegade pirates, trying to sabotage Sol, Pluto saw a significant increase in military patrols. Nowadays, it is mostly inhabited by Segaris Pioneers, who do not mind its remote location, and also by some of the poorest Terran citizens, who do not have access to the core of the Sol system.
Almost entirely devoid of life, this difficult-to-access sector is under complete Xenon control. Only a small contingent of Yaki pirates has, against the odds, managed to survive in this hostile territory. The Paranid-built superhighway enables their raiding parties to quickly access Antigone space and the fringes of the Sol system. However, its missing return lane does make returning to the Yaki base of operations an arduous and potentially dangerous task. The proximity to the Xenon, while unsafe, also has also proven to be the Yaki pirates' greatest asset. Hidden behind several Xenon systems, they are undisturbed by law enforcement, who would never dare venture this deep into Xenon space, so, as long as they can manage to maintain their fragile symbiosis with the Xenon, they can go about their business in relative safety.
Before the Jump Gates ceased to function, the Paranid reportedly tried to reclaim Savage Spur, which was in close proximity to their core systems, for themselves. Their first step was to construct a superhighway, in the hope that it would make policing the hostile system easier, and that Paranid forces could more flexibly respond to pirate activity. When Antigone Republic explorers rediscovered Savage Spur II after the system reconnected, they soon found, with some puzzlement, that one of the superhighway's directional lanes had vanished. It is theorised that the highway was collateral damage in the fight between Xenon and Kha'ak forces. However, this explanation does not account for the peculiar fact that subsequent patrols did not come across any remnants, such as drifting debris, suggesting perhaps a more deliberate method of disassembly.
Considered to be too remote to be useful for truly profitable mining operations, the Oort Cloud has been all but abandoned by the Terran High Command. Its only relevance now is in a military context. During the Jump Gate shutdown, the Protectorate conducted a number of targeted operations to systematically wipe out the remnants of the Beryll; the last holdovers of a renegade criminal group once residing in the cloud, which had, until then, managed to remain largely under the Terrans' radar. Although the Terran Protectorate has displayed little inclination to integrate the Oort Cloud into their economic supply chain, they have established a military infrastructure here and regularly patrol this remote area. A fundamentally dull assignment, being "promoted" to the Oort Cloud is likely to stop any officer's career ambitions dead in its tracks.
Family Valka used to be nomadic pirates, with a considerable presence throughout Split space. Not at home in any single system, they instead preferred to make a living raiding traders and other Split families. When the Gates shut down, they were scattered, and became more of a nuisance than an actual threat to the stability of the Patriarchy. However, as the Split systems started to reconnect, and the situation concerning the Free Families began to deteriorate, Patriarch Zyarth was worried about how much more dangerous the Free Families could be if they ever joined forces with Family Valka. To get ahead of this potential problem, Patriarch Zyarth offered the Valka pirates control over Wretched Skies. In terms of standing, this was a considerable step up for Patriarch Valka. He quickly assumed the role of jailer, maintaining and guarding the system's prison colonies.
This sector is home to a number of lesser Split families. They are unruly, and despite the Patriarch of all Split's tight grip on his empire, infighting is a common occurrence. It is only tolerated because this system is on the periphery of the Split empire, and the short bursts of violence do not escalate into sustained conflicts that might rope in larger parts of the Patriarchy. One family that often takes part in these skirmishes is the family Phi. They used to be regarded by other resident families as somewhat of an unofficial authority in the region, but with the Paranid continuing to establish a presence in the system, and Zyarth's interference and insistence on creating a stable order, the Patriarch Phi has lost much of its former standing.
This sector is the closest to the neutron star, whose force, like Zyarth's, is a magnificent sight to behold. As the birthplace of the Zyarth Patriarchy, it was from this sector that the Patriarch set out to unite all Split families under his rule. While the close proximity to Xenon space makes expanding and maintaining Zyarth's reach a challenge, this constantly looming threat is also the means by which he hardens his warriors, and ultimately gave him the military expertise to make his expansion such a success.
This sector offers a breath-taking view of the twin star phenomenon. The smaller of the two is a neutron star, the leftover core of an exploded star. It is incredibly dense, and spins with incomprehensible speed. It holds another, much larger star in its orbit, and feeds off this second star's material. In doing so, the neutron star continually increases its mass, and picks up more and more momentum. It is an apt symbol for the Patriarch's expansionist campaign.
When movement between systems trickled to a halt as a consequence of the Jump Gate shutdown, Zyarth seized the opportunity to subjugate opposing families, which had so far enjoyed the backing of other powerful Patriarchs. One notable family that fell to his military campaign was that of the Patriarch Velk. Velk commanded the only military force in this system that could rival Zyarth's, and was a close advisor to the Patriarch of all Split, Rhonkar. Zyarth bode his time until he was certain that Velk would be left to his own devices. When the moment came, he struck decisively and with all his might. With his rival out of the picture, Zyarth could focus on unifying all the other families, and proceeded to fortify his dominion.
Recovered records indicate that remnants of Family Tharka were still alive this deep into the system when the Gates started to malfunction. They had made their way towards the inhabitable planet and, even though Patriarch Tharka never managed to regroup with the vanguard expedition, they were able to sustain themselves well enough to scrape by. Presumably, the Split colonists were exhausted from the long journey and spread thinly when they encountered the Xenon. Salvaged wreckage suggests that they sent scouts to make their way back towards the Jump Gates, but none ever made it. Their mission was doomed to fail anyway, for even if they had reached the gates in time, they would have found them disconnected. After the Gates resumed functioning, other Split families claimed the system for themselves, and soon realised that the Family Tharka line had come to a violent end. In desperation the Patriarch had overreached and, spread so thinly, they were not able to put up an honourable fight, but rather vanished without fanfare.
When, after some time, the Patriarch's group which had stayed behind to explore this system did not receive any word from the vanguard expedition, they followed the second group through the Gate. As they had passed the point of no return and were starting to run out of supplies, they had no other choice but to push onward, in the hope of eventually reuniting their two expeditions.
When the Tharka expedition first made their way into this space, they were elated to come across another Jump Gate. Here, the expeditionary fleet split into two groups, one of which, led by Patriarch Tharka himself, would make a detour to explore the newly uncovered system beyond the Gate, while the other would push deeper into the heart of this system. They had picked up a planet on their scanners that could potentially sustain them, and so they set out to colonise it.
Wretched Skies X was claimed by Paranid forces only recently, after the Gates reconnected. Looking to secure their position against the Xenon sited in these parts of the universe, they began to fortify the sector, and have contacted the Godrealm in a bid for support. Paranid-Split relations are tense, and their forces clash occasionally, but due to the fact that these Paranid troops are acting as a first line of defence against the Xenon, their presence is begrudgingly tolerated by the Patriarchs, for the time being.
Over time, the Paranid pilgrims that were forced to settle in the vicinity of the Litany of Fury, as they reverentially titled the regular discharges of the system's sun, developed increasingly ambitious technology to shield themselves from the potential dangers of radiation. At first they experimented with austere, spatially efficient housing complexes in the crevices of tethered asteroids. At some point, while deconstructing a freighter to attach its life-support systems to one of these asteroids, the ordained priest engineers found that they could modify its shield generator output, significantly lessening the protection from physical impact but at the same time greatly expanding the shield coverage; a discovery which they believed would consecrate their settlements against the metaphysical threats present in the system. Over the following two decades, more and more station complexes sprang up that used this adaptation of shield technology to facilitate the construction of large, specialised screen modules able to protect their habitation units. Even though the threat of radiation has since been disproven to a certain extent, there is no doubt that these sprawling heaps of metal served to distract the invading Xenon during the Jump Gate realignment, buying the system's inhabitants enough time to escape.
During the glorious reconquest of Litany of Fury, it quickly became apparent that the Xenon incursion originated from far beyond the reaches of any ordinary Paranid warship. The commanding Prior Admiral ordered his staff to engineer a solution, and in a spur of lateral thinking uncommon for the Paranid, one of them declared a grand proposition that would ultimately bring the conflict to its decisive conclusion. The fleet's resources were immediately pooled to retrofit a construction vessel that was originally reserved for setting up the system's Defence Platform, and the monstrously armed result was sent off into the void in the direction of the presumed origin of the Xenon attacks. Upon arrival, the oversized construction vessel, in a display of artful Paranid ingenuity, blossomed into a Superhighway Gate. With their main advantage of distance removed from the equation, and an endless stream of holy fervour pouring from the new sector entry point, the Xenon and their production facilities were quickly eliminated.
Hidden behind a Split funeral accelerator lies The Boneyard. Shrouded in silence, it is the tranquil resting place of many of the great Patriarchs. The living are not meant to interfere with their final slumber, and yet this sector lies at the heart of a conspiracy to topple the current ways of Split society.
Initially, the Riptide Rakers were not the only denizens of the Avarice system. They used to share it with a community of wandering scientists, who became stranded when the system was cut off from the gate network. Not much is known about these enigmatic but peaceful nomads, since they mostly kept themselves to themselves. What is known, however, is that they were intensely focussed on researching the Tide phenomenon once it emerged. They conducted experiments and took measurements in the furthest reaches of Avarice, far from Tidebreak and the shelter it offered. Many of them lost their lives to the Tide in the pursuit of knowledge. Eventually, when the Riptide Rakers had not heard from the nomadic scientists for several weeks on end, they realised that the group had disappeared entirely. The scientists left behind only a few research instruments, and a ship prototype that the Riptide Rakers would later claim for themselves. Attempts by the Rakers to pick up where the scientists' research left off, or to make use of the equipment they left behind, have ultimately proven fruitless. Between the relentlessly recurring Tide and the attentions of desperate scrappers, most traces of their existence have long since been dismantled.
The whole of Avarice is plagued by repeated thermal pulses, emitted by the star at the heart of the system. The resulting waves of stellar particles ripping through the system are colloquially referred to by the local inhabitants as "the Tide". Despite the great speed at which the Tide advances, it takes a few moments to engulf the entirety of the system. Avarice V is the sector furthest away from the centre of the system and, as such, is afforded some advanced warning of its approach; other sectors are hit at barely a moment's notice. Another notable feature of Avarice as a whole, but especially this rather remote sector, is that it plays host to an unusually large number of space-time anomalies. These anomalies began to appear during the latter half of the system's period of isolation, but their number seems to have grown significantly since the gate resumed its function. Whether the increase in the number of anomalies was triggered by the re-connection to the Jump Gate network, was caused by some sort of inherent instability of the system, was in some way connected to the emergence of the Tide, or was even entirely coincidental, is a topic of much debate amongst scientists and scholars.
The impact of the first Tide took most of the inhabitants of the Avarice system by surprise. Many ships were destroyed outright, and the repeated waves would quickly also take their toll on larger, more fortified, constructions such as stations. The only object that turned out to be capable of withstanding the Tide was an abandoned mining facility which had been drilled into the side of a massive asteroid in Avarice IV, and which the Riptide Rakers soon repurposed as an austere but functional shelter. The majority of the inhabitants of Avarice flocked to this place of sanctuary, which became known as Tidebreak, leaving vast regions of the system uninhabited. Since the people living in Tidebreak could not venture far from their safe haven, the population lived in poverty and had to make do with scraps, and whatever resources they could gather in the intervals between Tides. For a long time, Tidebreak was the only reliable shelter from the Tide's forces. This only changed when new technology appeared, seemingly out of nowhere. A new substance began to be distributed by the hitherto completely unknown Northriver Company. This substance, called Protectyon, has unique properties that allow it to be used as fuel by the Riptide Rakers, to create protective shields powerful enough to withstand the intense stellar energy pulsing through Avarice. Thanks to this technology, the entirety of the Avarice system has since been reclaimed. In order to provide continuous protection, the new shield generators have to be regularly resupplied with small quantities of Protectyon, an incredibly rare and expensive substance. Stations which cannot afford to pay are left to fend for themselves and the people on these unprotected stations then fall victim to the Tide. The Northriver Company, being the sole supplier, has grown incredibly rich and powerful as a result, and while the conditions in Avarice have improved considerably since Protectyon was introduced, the situation remains incredibly volatile.
When the Teladi and Argon first re-established contact with the Windfall system, they hardly recognised it. Largely gone were the obscene displays of wealth, and the luxurious-looking space stations of the past. Instead, they were met with the skeletal relics of old marvels. And whereas their envoys used to be met with good will and gifts by the rich communities that were once in charge, they were now met with open hostility by the criminal gangs that constituted the new leadership. Understandably, relations between Windfall and its neighbours have cooled significantly. Fearful that outside influence would disrupt the delicate system that had established itself during the period of isolation, the biggest criminal organisation, the Vigor Syndicate, seized the opportunity and united several other criminal groups under its banner. The unruly nature of the system also led many smaller bands of pirates to use Windfall as a staging ground for their raids into Argon and Teladi space, and as a retreat where they could disappear off the radar of the law. It remains unclear why the Ministry of Finance and the Argon authorities refrain from occupying this lawless thorn in their side. Perhaps it is because their offensive capabilities are required more urgently elsewhere, or maybe some back-channel deals have been made to keep them out of the system.
The new arrangement of the Jump Gate network means that this sector of the Windfall system provides the only entry point into the Avarice system. Scavengers of the Riptide Rakers, as well as commonwealth traders, passing through Windfall to access Avarice are often harassed by the Syndicate and other smaller bands of criminals. This results in the exchange of wares between Avarice and the outside network being somewhat sparse. The close proximity to Riptide Rakers' space also resulted in a scrapyard being built in this sector by the Vigor Syndicate. Impounded ships are stripped of anything useful and then stored, to be accessed for scrap metal at a later date. It is also of note that the Vigor Syndicate enforce a complete monopoly on all food production and distribution in their space. This policy was initially lobbied for by the Solid Ice Union, a conglomerate of Ice mining companies stranded in Windfall, who went on to form one notable wing of the Vigor Syndicate. Some argue that the policy is meant to prohibit resource extraction by outside forces with more technologically advanced mining ships, now that the connection has been re-established. Others point out that by disallowing any transportation of food whatsoever, other than that sold by their own traders, they have effectively erected a soft trade blockade and made the people of Avarice dependent on their products, which they naturally sell at a premium. Ironically, this has led to some Raker ships smuggling contraband food through pirate territory.
Windfall IV is notable for housing the Aurora Casino, which is the largest gambling establishment in the network. It used to be the shining centrepiece of culture, to which the rich business people and socialites who originally settled the system flocked. During the period when the system collapsed into lawlessness, the station never ceased to function entirely, but maintenance was somewhat neglected, and the exterior lost much of its visual splendour. Nowadays, the casino is a big part of the Syndicate's push to attract outsiders to their system. They hope that the promise of a quick fortune will attract both potential new business partners and easy marks. While patrons gamble away their salaries in the ostentatious lobby of the casino, shady deals take place in the back rooms. The Aurora serves as a hub for criminals from all walks of life. As such, it has become a first point of contact for anyone looking to strike a deal with the Vigor Syndicate. Since the connection between Avarice and Windfall was first established, the Syndicate have been offering loans to desperate Riptide Rakers who find themselves unable to maintain their stations by other means. Naturally, they charge interest, and anyone who cannot afford to pay them back on time finds themselves in deep trouble.
