Added warning when selecting graphics settings that are too high for current hardware.
Removed SSAA options (if you previously selected SSAA then you are advised to select a different AA setting).
Removed outdated, broken and not very useful "joystick" input preset.
Fixed the player ship warping around when opening the map under certain conditions.
Fixed explosions near the Manager's Office sometimes killing the station manager and making trading impossible.
Fixed non-missile weapons assigned to an active secondary group shooting while the long range scan mode is active.
Fixed inactive missions becoming active after requesting guidance to an object.
Fixed links to the Encyclopedia from software and deployables.
Fixed black trade menus when owning small mining ships.
Fixed mining orders not available for small mining ships.
Fixed pilots not getting up when asked.
Fixed some savegames crashing shortly after loading them.
Fixed crash when trying to start the game with certain older AMD driver versions.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Added Korean localisation.
Added "Keep Settings?" dialog when changing antialiasing option.
Added user-submitted default profile for the Thrustmaster T16000m FCS HOTAS (thanks eisberg1977!).
Changed default setting for gamepad mode to be "Only for controllers".
Removed hull damage on collisions until the auto pilot has learned to fly around things!
Fixed suspense music still playing even if all nearby enemies have been destroyed.
Fixed player-owned ship icons that are underneath player-owned station icons getting selection priority.
Fixed player ships assigned to stations not trading in some cases.
Fixed the movement of newly assigned managers to the managers office.
Fixed manager's office on player stations not being accessible if there is no manager.
Fixed crew re-assignment in certain cases (e.g. from M ship to docked S ship).
Fixed assigning of crew in the back of your ship.
Fixed being able to assign crew as black marketeers.
Fixed cash exploit involving hallucinogenics and hard drugs!
Fixed too many Split characters appearing as pilots and managers.
Fixed not being able to Comm managers of player-owned stations via the info menu.
Fixed exploit allowing Comm with all known ships regardless of location (increased Comm range to compensate).
Fixed repair prices being inversely proportional to the amount of damage.
Fixed mass traffic being damaged in hazardous regions.
Fixed Bring Item missions.
Fixed some unlocalised text.
Fixed excessively loud repair lasers.
Fixed certain asteroids not displaying the correct name.
Fixed mirrored logos on small argon fighters.
Fixed highway adsigns clipping into opposite lane.
Fixed high and medium graphics qualities being identical.
Fixed graphics quality presets not changing texture quality and SSR option.
Fixed black screen after setting controller sensitivity to zero.
Fixed possible freeze involving ships repeatedly recalling subordinates who are unable to dock.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Improved automatic GPU selection to prioritise discrete GPUs.
Fixed freeze when saving the game.
Fixed some causes of freezes when starting the game.
Fixed cause of a crash after loading savegame.
Fixed upgrade orders becoming non-functional when loading a savegame.
Fixed money not being refunded for cancelled upgrades.
Fixed ships not being claimable from the space suit.
Fixed a case that could result in AutoTraders sometimes trading at a loss.
Fixed excessive delay between damage and start of repairs.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Added graphics setting to show graphics card and screen separately on multi-GPU systems.
Added option to restore all default settings.
Added Nividium to items bought by Argon and Teladi trade stations.
Added SSAA 2x and 4x options back in
Improved accuracy of turrets and gimballed weapons.
Improved skill gain profile for NPCs.
Improved station-based traders to sell products at at least the price set at their station.
Improved options for selling illegal wares.
Removed non-functional engine mod type.
Removed mining turret compatibility from Sunder.
Removed display of type icons for unknown objects on map.
Removed mouse cursor emulation in start menu.
Removed option to shuffle station construction plan for HQ.
Fixed logbook showing oldest 1000 entries instead of newest.
Fixed searching for ware names to use the correct trade filter.
Fixed missing guidance information in Mission Manager
Fixed invasions stalling and starving the war missions of suitable situations.
Fixed illegal build plot for advanced gamestart "The Unworthy Entrepreneur".
Fixed player-owned ships sometimes dropping cargo without the player telling them to.
Fixed passengers or prisoners sometimes being promoted to captain thereby changing ship ownership.
Fixed turrets on M-sized ships flown by the player and set to attack all enemies not engaging hostile XS-sized ships.
Fixed case of patrolling ships failing to engage pirates pretending to belong to their faction.
Fixed police ships penalising unpaid plots in locations where they do not have police authority.
Fixed "Promote best crewmember" button not working if ship has no pilot and all crewmembers have 0 skills.
Fixed being able to recruit crew from NPC-owned capital ships.
Fixed another case of AutoTrade not functioning.
Fixed AutoMiners not selling the resources that they gather.
Fixed some player-owned ships not allowing you to dock.
Fixed L-sized turret and shieldgenerator blueprints not being available to the player.
Fixed certain collectables not being picked up when you fly over them.
Fixed ships stuck while docked awaiting an invalid build to complete.
Fixed characters being stuck in unhelpful places.
Fixed being able to clone crew members.
Fixed player logo being applied to HQ asteroid.
Fixed player HQ information menu not working after adding a production to the HQ.
Fixed missing dock areas on builder ships.
Fixed incorrect type of mines near gate in Eighteen Billion.
Fixed error incorrectly appearing if build is completed.
Fixed asteroid scanning not being possible.
Fixed missing text localization in several places.
Fixed missing German station announcements and other voiced lines.
Fixed a case of ships having no collision detection.
Fixed ships skipping collision avoidance in certain situations.
Fixed most cases of clipping through docking bay floors when docking.
Fixed a case of the player ship warping to an invalid location on undocking.
Fixed more cases of the player ship warping around (e.g. after taking control).
Fixed crash when installing broken equipment mods.
Fixed occasional unrecoverable freezes.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Added graphics setting to show graphics card and screen separately on multi-GPU systems.
Added option to restore all default settings.
Added Nividium to items bought by Argon and Teladi trade stations.
Added SSAA 2x and 4x options back in
Improved accuracy of turrets and gimballed weapons.
Improved skill gain profile for NPCs.
Improved station-based traders to sell products at at least the price set at their station.
Improved options for selling illegal wares.
Removed non-functional engine mod type.
Removed mining turret compatibility from Sunder.
Removed display of type icons for unknown objects on map.
Removed mouse cursor emulation in start menu.
Removed option to shuffle station construction plan for HQ.
Fixed logbook showing oldest 1000 entries instead of newest.
Fixed searching for ware names to use the correct trade filter.
Fixed missing guidance information in Mission Manager
Fixed invasions stalling and starving the war missions of suitable situations.
Fixed illegal build plot for advanced gamestart "The Unworthy Entrepreneur".
Fixed player-owned ships sometimes dropping cargo without the player telling them to.
Fixed passengers or prisoners sometimes being promoted to captain thereby changing ship ownership.
Fixed turrets on M-sized ships flown by the player and set to attack all enemies not engaging hostile XS-sized ships.
Fixed case of patrolling ships failing to engage pirates pretending to belong to their faction.
Fixed police ships penalising unpaid plots in locations where they do not have police authority.
Fixed "Promote best crewmember" button not working if ship has no pilot and all crewmembers have 0 skills.
Fixed being able to recruit crew from NPC-owned capital ships.
Fixed another case of AutoTrade not functioning.
Fixed AutoMiners not selling the resources that they gather.
Fixed some player-owned ships not allowing you to dock.
Fixed L-sized turret and shieldgenerator blueprints not being available to the player.
Fixed certain collectables not being picked up when you fly over them.
Fixed ships stuck while docked awaiting an invalid build to complete.
Fixed characters being stuck in unhelpful places.
Fixed being able to clone crew members.
Fixed player logo being applied to HQ asteroid.
Fixed player HQ information menu not working after adding a production to the HQ.
Fixed missing dock areas on builder ships.
Fixed incorrect type of mines near gate in Eighteen Billion.
Fixed error incorrectly appearing if build is completed.
Fixed asteroid scanning not being possible.
Fixed missing text localization in several places.
Fixed missing German station announcements and other voiced lines.
Fixed a case of ships having no collision detection.
Fixed ships skipping collision avoidance in certain situations.
Fixed most cases of clipping through docking bay floors when docking.
Fixed a case of the player ship warping to an invalid location on undocking.
Fixed more cases of the player ship warping around (e.g. after taking control).
Fixed crash when installing broken equipment mods.
Fixed occasional unrecoverable freezes.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Fixed HQ mission stalling if the escorted ship is unable to dock at its destination.
Fixed HQ mission stalling if player flew through the anomaly too fast.
Fixed duplicate and missing weapon entries in the HUD if multiple groups have been setup.
Fixed ship upgrade builds not starting in certain situations.
Fixed another cause of rare crashes.

Removed ability to assign trading/mining ships to invalid tasks and commanders.
Fixed factions not building new ships.
Fixed highway destinations not being displayed in target monitor.
Fixed guild missions not correctly restarting if a mission was failed or aborted.
Fixed player-owned ships formerly belonging to pirates sometimes attacking the player.
Fixed getting stuck in trader areas on the Teladi trade station.
Fixed being able to save game while Game Over is displayed.
Fixed occasional menu crash when changing crew at a shipyard/wharf/equipment dock.
Fixed Load Game menu breaking when trying to load an empty savegame slot.
Fixed Confirm/Cancel buttons sometimes missing in ship or station configuration menus.
Fixed top menu arrow not showing in Chinese/Korean localisations.
Fixed another cause of rare crashes.

NEW FEATURE (BETA): Send your ships on ventures into other players' universes!
Added (BETA) Japanese localisation.
Added option for "Betty" to speak target names.
Added option to undock and abort ship upgrades that are waiting for resources.
Added turret behaviour settings to the Ship Interactions menu (including L/XL ship turret groups).
Added notification in case player-owned ship is unable to dock as ordered.
Added inventory net worth in empire overview.
Added cooldown for station repair when stations are under attack.
Added entry for the manual to Help menu.
Improved performance with AMD GPUs.
Improved ability of lasertowers to track targets.
Improved faction rebuilding logic to not overload shipyards as much.
Improved traders supplying shipyards and wharfs.
Improved "Where can I find...?" dialogue option.
Changed inventory drop button to drop all selected wares if multiple are selected (for single wares amount can still be chosen).
Changed maximum damage done to ships due to sabotage by bailing pilots.
Fixed getting left behind when leaving your ship in the space suit while in relative movement with a bigger ship.
Fixed squadron subordinates sometimes flying extremely far from their commanders while flying in formation.
Fixed station-based mining ships delivering very few resources to their station if the station has little to no funds.
Fixed shipyards not stockpiling enough resources for ships with large amounts of deployables, and miscalculating resource allocation for other wares.
Fixed further case that could lead to police punishing player for retaliating against pirates.
Fixed capital ships sometimes bouncing off of each other when attempting to dock to exchange wares.
Fixed pirate ships congregating around their own stations.
Fixed and prevented pirate ships attempting to plunder in highways.
Fixed receiving requests from other pilots for help while not in a cockpit.
Fixed player-owned docked ships requring additional instruction to proceed with orders after being given new orders.
Fixed Xenon and Kha'ak ships always having very bad pilots.
Fixed incorrect reputation requirements for friend/ally ceremonies of Ministry of Finance.
Fixed repair mass traffic of pirate ships causing reputation loss when destroyed.
Fixed turrets and self-maintenance not working on ships whose pilots bailed out.
Fixed job ships not filling out their squadrons to make up for combat losses.
Fixed player ship not being included in boarding menu ship selection if player ship is selected along with other player-owned ships.
Fixed target of successful boarding operation sometimes getting some owner other than the player faction.
Fixed newly-boarded ships retaining their old orders.
Fixed lasertowers deployed by AI pilot waiting for player to tell it to proceed before deploying while player is standing on ship.
Fixed defence drones attempting to go to dock for repairs and to get more supplies.
Fixed mining ships not correctly reporting when they have completed their order.
Fixed player station managers not being assigned correctly in certain situations.
Fixed being able to teleport to stations that are not player-owned or allied.
Fixed missile blueprints not being available (now available from faction representatives).
Fixed HQ Escort mission selecting an inactive gate for the ship to fly through.
Fixed Satellite Coverage mission.
Fixed Rescue Ship mission not rewarding any credits.
Fixed ships to be rescued from a minefield responding to attacks.
Fixed other lasertowers in a group not responding if one of them is attacked.
Fixed several issues with Find Lockbox mission, including it not finishing in certain cases.
Fixed Repair mission not completing if object got repaired in the meanwhile.
Fixed Acquire Captain mission being available for spacesuit.
Fixed Assassination missions selecting player-owned NPC's as mission-target.
Fixed abort condition for several missions.
Fixed several tutorial progression issues.
Fixes savegames with stalled guild missions.
Fixed player not being correctly refunded when aborting some ship builds.
Fixed shipyards and wharfs never building again if they were hacked.
Fixed Xenon shipyards and wharfs sometimes storing wares they don't need.
Fixed menu crash when upgrading capital ships.
Fixed trade context menu being black.
Fixed doors sometimes getting stuck after loading a savegame.
Fixed NPC ships being removed on loading savegame in some situations.
Fixed failure to open Logical Station Overview for large stations and for low UI scale values.
Fixed plot management menu breaking with too many stations.
Fixed freeze in map when viewing information on very large stations.
Fixed mission briefing in ultra-wide resolutions.
Fixed start menu not opening in certain cases.
Fixed missing German character voices.
Fixed various localisation issues.
Fixed reversed front/back speakers.
Fixed causes of several freezes and performance issues in specific circumstances.
Fixed several other causes of rare crashes.

Added music tracks from previous games.
Added map filter option to disable allied order queue visualisation.
Added option to edit or remove assignment in order queue.
Added tooltips explaining why Request Dock At option is greyed-out.
Improved overall game performance.
Improved AI attacking of stations.
Improved reward calculation for Rescue Ship mission.
Improved reward calculation and area range for Repair mission.
Improved reward calculation and fleet variation in Fleet Delivery mission.
Improved location check for claiming plot in Station Building mission.
Improved likelihood of NPCs providing information when asking for the way to a station.
Improved AutoMiner behaviour to avoid mining in enemy-held territory depending on crew skill.
Removed ability to map right mouse button to avoid conflicts with context menu function.
Fixed player-owned stations not transferring money to the player after having earned a surplus.
Fixed player-owned ships mis-identifying some ships as being abandoned.
Fixed ships sometimes undocking and docking again when given an order that doesn't require a ship to change docks.
Fixed NPC-owned capital class mining ships not being able to mine due to lack of collector drones.
Fixed mining ships sometimes not going to their designated positions before starting to mine.
Fixed delay after player issuing AutoMiner order.
Fixed capital ships with forward-mounted weapons sometimes orienting broadside to big targets.
Fixed capital ships not acquiring some station modules when attacking them.
Fixed fighters manoeuvering against and firing upon the center of stations rather than acquiring station modules.
Fixed player-owned squadron subordinates pursuing targets to the ends of the universe.
Fixed combat ships assigned to a station not staying in the vicinity of the station.
Fixed captured visitor ships sometimes not accepting orders.
Fixed UI allowing player to order player-owned ships to "Dock to Trade" at player-owned stations that have no trade offers.
Fixed ships wanting to undock from a venture platform worrying that they might leave the player stranded at the station.
Fixed player-owned free traders preferring build-related trades.
Fixed free traders tending to prefer trades involving buying low amounts or high prices.
Fixed player-owned station-based traders ignoring sell offers at the station below a certain threshold.
Fixed rare case that would prevent AutoMine and AutoTrade orders from functioning.
Fixed lasertower orders being assignable to things that weren't lasertowers.
Fixed lasertowers erroneously attempting to move while in highways.
Fixed computer pilots of drones and lasertowers sometimes bailing.
Fixed player-owned ships formerly owned by pirates retaining their cover ownership.
Fixed docked ships on claimed ships retaining old ownership and crew on board.
Fixed theoretical ability to improve relations with Xenon and Kha'ak.
Fixed not being able to select items to deliver to Black Marketeer when playing multiple delivery missions simultaneously.
Fixed receiving pilot comm chatter while not in a cockpit.
Fixed Security Office not being available on all stations.
Fixed Boarding mission where ship was already captured earlier.
Fixed mission character disappearing during Delivery mission.
Fixed duplicate greeting of Black Marketeer during Delivery mission.
Fixed cases of missing dialog choices for Black Marketeers.
Fixed Tutorial and Help menu in ultra-wide resolutions.
Fixed large number of queued orders breaking the order queue menu.
Fixed map shortcuts not working after using minimize.
Fixed wrong production resources shown in LSO and encyclopedia.
Fixed hidden information (shown as "???") on player stations in certain cases.
Fixed loadout statistics showing changes in engine performance when applying a paint mod.
Fixed venture reward menu sometimes not displaying reward information.
Fixed custom player logo not being displayed on target monitor.
Fixed comms monitor not showing up on incoming reports from pilots.
Fixed excessive L and XL travel engine prices.
Fixed certain M-sized turret slots on some L-sized ships not allowing mining turrets to be fitted.
Fixed mirrored logos on some ships.
Fixed NPC position in bar.
Fixed various NPC animation issues.
Fixed player ship standing still when opening the map after undocking from a station.
Fixed problems docking certain M-sized ships (especially Drill) without docking software.
Fixed ships protecting stations with the Protect Station order chasing targets out of the designated area.
Fixed new NPC stations potentially having their build storages owned by incorrect factions.
Fixed squadron subordinates sometimes not keeping up with their commanders.
Fixed dock showing stop sign while ship docked after loading savegame.
Fixed occasional loss of control input while in flight.
Fixed incorrect graphics settings displayed after changing Graphics Quality.
Fixed Account Management and Logical Station Overview menus not setting manager budget when setting station account.
Fixed menu crash in supply node of Logical Station Overview.
Fixed menu crash when opening Info menu for certain stations.
Fixed menu freeze in Account Management menu.
Fixed map freeze if a commander was docked at one of their subordinates.
Fixed UI showing possibility to edit default behaviours of subordinates.
Fixed strange items being added to inventory after venture completes.
Fixed unclaimed venture rewards getting lost on subsequent save/load cycle.
Fixed planned station builds being lost after saving and loading.
Fixed some memory leaks.
Fixed causes of several freezes and performance issues in specific circumstances.
Fixed several other causes of crashes.

Fixed negative station budgets and accounts.
Fixed crash when reassigning crew.

New Feature: Player-owned stations with Shipyard, Wharf and Equipment Dock facilities.
Added options to set custom name for savegames and to delete savegames.
Added ware exchange between ships docked at the same station.
Added possibility to start/stop travel mode and SETA while map is open.
Added warnings about non-working venture modules due to station layout.
Added fighter wings directly subordinate to carriers.
Added display of partial skill stars to one third of a star accuracy.
Added preview of ship storage capacity after all planned trades to info menu.
Added trade menu warning that ware is not available after all planned trades.
Added separate Remove all Orders and Wait option, replacing parameter to Remove all Orders.
Added failure sound when invalid hotkey is used while map is displayed.
Added confirmation before closing station build menu if there are unsaved changes.
Added tooltip for greyed-out claim option to show reason.
Added full Russian and Japanese localisation (text only).
Added more details about damage types to weapon and turret entries in Encyclopedia.
Added skill-based variants for AutoMine behaviour.
Removed duplicated equipment blueprints from trader menu.
Improved Xenon threat.
Improved turret aiming and target movement prediction.
Improved combat movement of frigates.
Improved combat movement of capital ships with good captains and crews that do not have forward-mounted weapons against other capital ships or stations.
Improved capital ship combat movement against small and medium targets.
Improved balancing of capital ship defensive and offensive capabilities.
Improved balancing of capital ship use of boost during combat.
Improved balancing of capital ship crews bailing when ship is attacked.
Improved balancing of missiles.
Improved balancing of ware prices and production profitability to emphasize smart business decisions.
Improved target acquisition for ships, particularly when attacking stations or capital ships.
Improved command information shown by attacking ships when attacking a subcomponent of a bigger target.
Improved range over which ships that run out of ammo can look for a known equipment dock from which to re-stock.
Improved kinds of stations requested from station building missions.
Improved encyclopedia information for production and factions.
Improved Logical Station Overview to show station's recommended budget instead of the currently needed money in account settings.
Improved quickload hotkey (F9 by default) so it loads the latest saved game, not necessarily a quicksave.
Improved playback logic for music tracks from previous games.
Improved performance when working with very large stations.
Improved menu performance.
Improved trade evaluation for free traders.
Improved firing logic of missile-armed fighters.
Improved guided missile effectiveness.
Improved loadout distribution on NPC ships.
Improved combat movement of capital ships, particularly those with forward-mounted weapons.
Improved balancing of resource requirements for L and XL travel engines.
Improved default countermeasure storage capacities.
Fixed issues with target elements in the HUD in certain cases (e.g. when using "external view" through the map while standing on a ship/station).
Fixed keyboard and gamepad selection not working in scrolling dropdown elements.
Fixed previous/next target hotkeys and enemy targets sometimes not working when flying captured venture ships.
Fixed previous/next surface element hotkey sometimes not working after loading a savegame.
Fixed behaviour of autopilot shortcut in the map (now correctly toggles autopilot on guidance target).
Fixed production modules sometimes not updating their animation when production starts/stops.
Fixed research wares being listed in economy statistics of the HQ.
Fixed storage types in encyclopedia not being localised.
Fixed turret modifications breaking ship info menu.
Fixed broken Logical Station Overview menu for stations missing a storage type and having no planned modules.
Fixed broken menu when firing crew and then hiring new people in the ship buy/upgrade menu.
Fixed missing title text in ship construction context menu in map.
Fixed ship assignment not being queued correctly (possibly upsetting existing trade deals).
Fixed deliver inventory mission not correctly placing the character in some situations.
Fixed Bring Item mission offers not being removed properly if destination station or NPC was killed.
Fixed several issues with Fleet Delivery mission.
Fixed Scan mission not checking for destruction of target station module.
Fixed Scan mission to require only normal scan rather than deep scan for station modules.
Fixed missing guidance to station module in Scan mission.
Fixed Passenger Transport missions to filter out incorrect stations.
Fixed Find Lockbox mission to ensure containers remain in mission area.
Fixed station ownership not being transferred in Build Station mission
Fixed trade and pirate guild mission offers not changing over time.
Fixed incorrect faction and other text for several dialog options and briefings in war missions.
Fixed introductory mission of war subscriptions getting stuck.
Fixed Holy Order outliers sometimes prematurely precipitating conflict with the Godrealm of the Paranid.
Fixed attacking ships repeatedly approaching and retreating from target before getting close to it.
Fixed ships moving out of pursuit distance to attack targets in their initial approach.
Fixed ships attacking stations flying at and firing upon station target box instead of station modules.
Fixed patrolling ships attacking build storage.
Fixed ships showing excessive DPS when weapons are in more than one active weapon group.
Fixed builder ships wandering into hostile territory.
Fixed capital ship subordinates of carriers sometimes attempting to dock at their commander's ship.
Fixed station-based trading ships setting their current sector as their home sector rather than their station's sector.
Fixed ship/station operations being hampered by docked ships working for that ship/station not undocking while player is present.
Fixed boarding ships that are missing ammo trying to disable boarding target anyway.
Fixed formation skill checks not respecting the player being the pilot.
Fixed another case of patrolling player-owned ships chasing hostiles beyond their engagement range.
Fixed squadron subordinates apparently trying to attack ships from their own faction.
Fixed player-owned ships sometimes inadvertently firing missiles depending on their weapon group setup.
Fixed turrets set to Attack my Current Enemy not firing when they should.
Fixed turrets set to Attack my Current Enemy firing when they shouldn't.
Fixed ships attacking stations stopping their attack after destroying a station module or surface element.
Fixed turrets on the player ship that are set to mining mode not firing on asteroids.
Fixed boarding ships not launching boarding pods in certain situations.
Fixed fleeing ships acquiring a target and attacking in certain situations.
Fixed ships attempting to disable a target deliberately destroying it instead.
Fixed ships with a Follow order not responding to certain situations.
Fixed player-owned ships attacking friendly ships while patrolling player-owned space.
Fixed non-police ships (including player-owned ships) sometimes responding to calls for police assistance.
Fixed non-Xenon races not constructing defence stations.
Fixed build storage of destroyed stations not being cleaned up.
Fixed NPCs rubber-banding for a long time after loading a savegame in certain situations.
Fixed NPCs getting stuck in elevator if player uses it while NPC is walking in it.
Fixed NPC marshalling animations during player docking/undocking.
Fixed multiple NPCs standing in the same position on some Argon bridges.
Fixed cases of duplicate interior rooms on stations.
Fixed frozen movement in bridges of docked capital ships.
Fixed cargo trades with Black Marketeer sometimes failing.
Fixed module hacking requirements not being respected.
Fixed area damage not being correctly applied in certain situations.
Fixed ships flying huge curves when going long distances.
Fixed multiple shipyards attempting to fulfil the same NPC ship build requests.
Fixed NPC ships sometimes requesting more subordinates to be built than they desired.
Fixed stations not claiming sector ownership if claiming module is built later.
Fixed turrets and shields not being added to station module when not part of a new module.
Fixed station module stats and achievements not triggering with the first module of a station.
Fixed station module recycling sometimes interrupting an ongoing build.
Fixed recycle times of station modules.
Fixed exploit where wares could be gained when recycling modules.
Fixed inability to remove last remaining module when planning a station.
Fixed not being able to cancel ship orders in some cases.
Fixed total build time being off by up to one minute for some objects.
Fixed onboard units not being factored into object value.
Fixed inconsistencies with station hull values.
Fixed stations not remembering their Drone/Unit supply settings.
Fixed small ships failing to exchange wares with ships they can dock at.
Fixed ships needlessly undocking to trade.
Fixed faction discounts and commissions not being removed when relations worsen.
Fixed transfer of crew from one role to another not being possible at shipyard/wharf/equipment dock if no other changes are made.
Fixed EMP-induced signal leaks on unowned small and medium ships claiming them for the player when scanned.
Fixed lasertowers spawning in wrong location when deployed from Elite.
Fixed lasertowers potentially ending up in the exact same position in space.
Fixed objects attracted with the container magnet sometimes getting an unreasonable speed.
Fixed ships sometimes oscillating around target positions if SETA is active.
Fixed ships docked at other ships sometimes appearing twice in the elevator menu.
Fixed issue resulting in data leaks sometimes appearing inside station modules.
Fixed roll input in highways steering in the wrong direction.
Fixed inability to remap camera input control.
Fixed not being able to load certain user-provided files (e.g. custom logos) with non-ASCII file names.
Fixed floating geometry on the M-sized Beam Emitter Mk2.
Fixed rare freeze related to player ship control.
Fixed NPC ships sometimes not leaving shipyards after being built.
Fixed Discoverer doors not opening when newly built.
Fixed incorrect shield configuration on Behemoth.
Fixed engine positions on Xenon K so that they can now be destroyed.
Fixed ship build menu showing wrong sustained DPS values when planning multiple weapons on new ship.
Fixed shopping list items in the ship build menu not being editable.
Fixed exchanging missiles and drones between ships and stations using Ware Exchange.
Fixed police ships attempting to scan surface elements for illegal goods.
Fixed police sometimes inspecting ships that are already being inspected by another police ship.
Fixed squadron subordinates sometimes failing to call in support from their squadron.
Fixed patrolling ships sometimes accidentally crossing jump gates.
Fixed factions sometimes not using their intelligence data in preparation for invading.
Fixed laser towers being dragged along by the launching ship in certain situations.
Fixed laser towers continuing to track targets that are no longer valid.
Fixed rare case causing ships to rotate erratically.
Fixed a cause of ships trying to fly into the centre of stations without avoiding collisions.
Fixed Black Marketeers sometimes being placed aboard Kha'ak stations.
Fixed newly constructed NPC stations being given resources immediately.
Fixed production showing wrong resources (again).
Fixed stations provided by the player via the Build Station mission not having functioning managing NPCs.
Fixed weapons with slow bullets or missiles not firing.
Fixed ships assigned to join player squad not getting new orders.
Fixed mission chains being cancelled if target was destroyed before the mission started.
Fixed Boarding mission not being cancelled if target was destroyed before the mission started.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature (BETA): TrackIR support.
New Feature: Direct Mouse Steering mode (also known as Classic Mouse Steering or Boresight Steering).
New Feature: Mouse HUD mode option (changing this option to "Left Mouse Button Mode" enables any controls remapped to the right mouse button).
Added upgrade slot and dock information to ship encyclopedia entries.
Added resource amounts for construction to ship and equipment encyclopedia entries.
Added trade offer amount graphs to sector encyclopedia entries.
Added enforcement of formation skill requirement.
Added Radius to parameters for Protect Position.
Added Attack Targets in Range order.
Added player-owned shipyard tutorial.
Improved carriers launching fighters against targets.
Improved behaviour of station subordinate traders.
Improved time taken to generate mass traffic for extremely complex stations when loading savegames.
Improved subordinate handling in long distance movement.
Improved ship behaviour when docking at other moving ships.
Fixed player-owned ships sometimes pursuing targets outside their designated area when ordered to protect a position or a station.
Fixed yet another case involving ships moving long distances pursuing targets they attack to other sectors.
Fixed too many empty shield/turret groups on L/XL ships (not retroactive, only affects newly fitted ships).
Fixed Paranid and Teladi stations using Argon piers (not retroactive, only affects newly built stations).
Fixed Shipyards, Wharfs and Equipment Docks sometimes offering maximum price for resources they don't desperately need.
Fixed newly-built stations sometimes not respecting nearby station plots.
Fixed several instances of NPCs teleporting to their destinations instead of walking.
Fixed NPCs not paying for subordinate ships ordered at player-owned shipyards.
Fixed NPCs potentially vanishing if reassigned while moving to certain locations.
Fixed NPCs sometimes not getting out of chairs when requested.
Fixed player gliding around after getting up under certain circumstances.
Fixed never-ending conversations with NPCs via the target monitor.
Fixed credits not being returned when cancelling an order to upgrade a ship.
Fixed shipyards potentially building ships which they should not be able to build.
Fixed NPC ships potentially waiting forever to restock at equipment docks.
Fixed ships in flight immediately coming to a standstill when their orders are cancelled.
Fixed case causing ships to stand still incorrectly.
Fixed case that resulted in ships not going where they wanted to.
Fixed flight behaviour of marines on boarding pods when doing Claim and Boarding operations.
Fixed carrier-based fighters not launching to engage hostile targets.
Fixed direct subordinates of carriers that could not dock once never trying to dock again.
Fixed player-owned ships telling player that they are awaiting orders if they have further orders or are subordinate to anyone other than the player.
Fixed player-owned free traders not selling cargo that is in their cargo hold that is also in the player-defined list of wares to trade in.
Fixed ships attacking wrecks.
Fixed ships stopping to attack build storage while travelling long distances.
Fixed ships getting distracted by hostile targets in highways.
Fixed some missions treating inactive Jump Gates as active.
Fixed welder drones launching from destroyed construction vessels.
Fixed ship chassis construction resources not being displayed.
Fixed ships under construction being destroyed when they are put into storage.
Fixed ships under construction not moving down when being put into storage.
Fixed wrecks of certain objects (especially small Laser Towers) not being cleaned up properly and accumulating over time.
Fixed being able to accidentally disable your own station for several hours by hacking a control panel.
Fixed station build menu forgetting unconfirmed loadout changes after returning from the encyclopedia.
Fixed formation leader speed limit when formation wingmen are trying to catch up.
Fixed capital ships trying to avoid asteroids that they can just fly through without problems.
Fixed weapons on player ships sometimes following view direction even while not seated in ship.
Fixed estimated missing resources displayed at equipment docks and shipyards sometimes being incorrect.
Fixed orders to equip ships not being able to be cancelled when waiting for resources (does not affect existing orders).
Fixed issues with ship movement in multi-layer formations.
Fixed police ships sometimes patrolling the wrong sector.
Fixed Deploy Object mission allowing object to be placed further away than requested.
Fixed missing localisation of objective text in Build Station mission.
Fixed some mission briefing text errors.
Fixed war missions potentially building up over time.
Fixed war mission not treating contested sectors correctly.
Fixed notification "All trade operations completed" being displayed too often.
Fixed wrong reason given for penalising relations if the player attacks a ship that is currently being investigated by police.
Fixed wrong reason given for penalising relations if the player builds a station in policed space on a plot that hasn't been paid for.
Fixed station building mission not transferring ownership of corresponding build storage.
Fixed display for filled percentage of engine and turret groups being the same in the ship build menu.
Fixed missing hull/shield bar elements in the map menu if more than 50 objects are listed at once.
Fixed encyclopedia not showing 3D models when opened from another menu.
Fixed info menu inaccessible for some supported objects (e.g. nav beacons).
Fixed calculation of unread entries for faction licence entries in the encyclopedia.
Fixed position of an element in the docking UI when flying a capital ship.
Fixed inconsistent crew notification on completion of a mining order.
Fixed muzzle-flash and firing position for some turrets.
Fixed turrets and shield generators sometimes left floating when Construction Vessel changes activation state.
Fixed shield generator obscuring space suit docking bay on Behemoth.
Fixed inability to enter spacesuit from Sunder.
Fixed some Argon character body mismatches.
Fixed joystick hot-plug issues on Linux.
Fixed mouse look not working while sitting in a docked ship.
Fixed double clicks inadvertently closing menus.
Fixed menus slowing down over time (especially noticeable when keeping map open).
Fixed several causes of menu crashes in various menus.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Improved GPU auto-selection.
Improved handling of new ship construction at shipyards and wharfs to not overload or block them.
Fixed wings assigned to use a formation that requires zero piloting skill arbitrarily changing their formation to some other formation.
Fixed stations built for NPCs as part of Build Station mission being unknown afterwards
Fixed subscription missions in progress being removed after a certain amount of time.
Fixed factions still placing orders for ships at player owned shipyards even when disallowed.
Fixed excessively loud venture mission completion sound.
Fixed gamepad/joystick mouse emulation under Linux.
Fixed cause of rare freeze.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature: Resupply ships are now available and carriers can also resupply their fighters.
New Feature: Sector blacklist settings to prevent ships entering certain areas.
New Feature: Inventory management with lockboxes in space and inventory storage at player HQ.
New Feature: Tobii eye-tracking support (Windows only).
Added information about missing licence for buying blueprints.
Added basic set of blueprints to Hatikvah and Scaleplate faction representatives.
Added wanted ware amounts to trade context menu.
Added images and background information relating to star systems and planets in encyclopedia.
Added logbook entries for NPC ships being built, restocked or repaired at player shipyards.
Added note/hint while mouse direct steering mode is active.
Added more variations for Build Station, Rescue Ship and Scan missions.
Added new global orders section in player information menu.
Added options for ware transfer and trade with build storage to docked menu.
Added inventory information to player-owned ships.
Added categories to object list and property owned in the map.
Added options to sort the object list and property owned menus by name, size or hull.
Added warning in trade menu if a ship cannot transport a ware.
Added possibility to cancel builder ship assignments before ship deploys at station.
Added current build progress information to the module type summary lines of station entries in the map.
Added option to configure autosave interval (and prevented autosave immediately after a manual save).
Added information about hacked research module to research menu.
Added information about hacked production modules to info menu and Logical Station Overview.
Added ability to configure Logical Station Overview graph data for each station individually.
Added wreck filter option to map.
Added interior sounds to rooms, shops and ship bridges.
Added mining and resupply tutorials.
Improved cockpit glass transparency.
Improved fight-or-flight decision-making to only call for help if help is to be expected.
Improved behaviour of ships docking at busy locations.
Improved guidance for the find crate missions.
Improved station mining subordinate behaviour when station resource requirements increase.
Improved storage capacity of carriers to help them fulfil their supply function.
Improved faction logic to attempt to rebuild shipyards after their destruction.
Improved information menu presentation of cargo storage on ships.
Improved collision avoidance in specific situations.
Improved CollectLockbox order behaviour.
Improved selection of multiple wares for behaviours and map filters.
Improved out-of-sector firepower calculations.
Improved resource preview in the ship build/upgrade menu.
Improved satellite deployment tutorial.
Improved performance of loading and saving.
Improved interface for dropping player inventory.
Improved map object list performance when looking at many player stations.
Improved faction behaviour when dealing with ware shortages.
Improved ship formation behaviour when flying in travel mode.
Improved controller support for initial ship type selection in ship build menu.
Improved ship docking and undocking movement in certain cases.
Improved behaviour of free-flying police.
Improved defence drone handling by capital ships in combat.
Improved mission reward text for paint mods.
Improved updating of wares to be traded or harvested by station-based trading ships and mining ships.
Improved Logical Station Overview graph data selection.
Improved AI station generation logic to make selection of large habitation modules more likely where appropriate.
Updated external links to wiki and manual.
Changed faction representative menu to still show owned blueprints.
Removed Fly To objective from Build Station missions.
Removed ability to load construction plans that contain more venture modules than the player has available.
Removed ability to move an empty station plot after paying a cheap licence to a location with an expensive licence without repercussions.
Fixed mouse-over text not being updated in certain cases when scrolling a table.
Fixed resource display showing amounts up to 100x too high when removing station modules.
Fixed moving of station plots potentially resulting in incorrectly placed build storage.
Fixed faction representatives selling ship blueprints of other factions of the same race.
Fixed ware exchange between capital ships getting stuck.
Fixed shield generator obscuring space suit docking bay on Behemoth for existing ships (was fixed for new ships in 2.20).
Fixed deployables launching from ship getting stuck when boarding operation against that ship succeeds.
Fixed doors on docked ships sometimes not opening when the player is nearby.
Fixed getting stuck in elevators that are going up.
Fixed ships getting stuck during flight in certain circumstances.
Fixed Kha'ak stations offering missions.
Fixed Hatikvah and Scaleplate ships being unavailable from their shipyards.
Fixed Xenon being unable to repair or build certain station modules.
Fixed supply information in Logical Station Overview not updating.
Fixed research menu not showing completed research if it finished while menu was not displayed.
Fixed capital ships undocking from each other potentially failing without recovery.
Fixed being able to Board abandoned ships.
Fixed being able to Claim ships that are currently being boarded.
Fixed lasertowers being allowed to receive orders that they cannot complete.
Fixed station drone removal when target amount is zero.
Fixed wrong interact menu options for lasertowers.
Fixed inability to Comm carriers and resupply ships from map.
Fixed interactions on docking bays of capital ships that are themselves docked.
Fixed certain research activities being cancelled when loading a savegame.
Fixed missing resources for station module loadouts sometimes not being listed in menus.
Fixed build storage not correctly taking future module and loadout resources into account while a module is being recycled.
Fixed incorrect requirement to own at least one ship blueprint of a certain ship size before this ship size can be upgraded at player-owned shipyards.
Fixed ships not upgrading/repairing if piloted by player with unrelated orders on order queue.
Fixed trade/equip orders being ignored if assuming direct control of a ship with such orders.
Fixed sending ship to repair multiple components only repairing the first queued component.
Fixed planned loadout changes on station modules marking all following modules as changed.
Fixed repair menu showing completely wrecked surface elements on ships as having no damage.
Fixed stations with workforce of multiple races not ordering all resources to feed them.
Fixed trade context menu not working if no player ship is available.
Fixed ship being teleported when disabling Flight Assist from the quick menu while near a station.
Fixed traders that are subordinates of stations sometimes purchasing wares that are not required by their commander.
Fixed newly constructed shipyards and defence stations not being named correctly.
Fixed ammo/units not being added to Encyclopedia when included in loadout on player-owned ship.
Fixed wrong text displayed for police faction in encyclopedia.
Fixed station modules sometimes being constructed and recycled in a loop.
Fixed stations potentially building turrets and shields on modules being recycled.
Fixed station modules which were destroyed appearing as operational while recycling.
Fixed Teladi Trading Station not being able to repair its modules.
Fixed XS deployables launched from some capital ships getting spawned away from ship that launched them.
Fixed some capital ships having too much S ship storage.
Fixed some capital ships being unable to store docked M ships in internal storage.
Fixed player being stuck in wrong position when getting up while external view is active.
Fixed bullets not hitting when viewing a remote battle in external view.
Fixed ships launched from launch tubes not immediately folding up their landing gear.
Fixed ships sometimes getting stuck while docking.
Fixed several cases of formation wingmen going through geometry.
Fixed ware exchange failing in some cases when involving one ship docked at another.
Fixed free traders preferring low-volume wares.
Fixed rare case of free traders choosing a now-disadvantageous trade over a trade that had improved over time.
Fixed station module search not being localized.
Fixed freeze when there is a police ship belonging to a faction that no longer controls any space.
Fixed non-factory stations gifted to other factions not updating their name correctly.
Fixed laser towers displaying a ship icon as their target element in the HUD.
Fixed weapon aim indicators being displayed when a menu is open.
Fixed interact menu not working in certain situations.
Fixed issues with moving station plots during Build Station missions.
Fixed Rescue Ship mission potentially creating unowned ships which don't get cleaned up.
Fixed Rescue Ship mission reward calculation in the variant where the ship must be delivered.
Fixed warping to a different sector when getting up during specific stage of HQ mission.
Fixed missile range calculation for dumbfire missiles.
Fixed very slow mission offer display if many offers are known.
Fixed menu errors when opening information menu for ship under construction.
Fixed huge player-owned stations not displaying all stored wares in information menu.
Fixed encyclopedia links to ships not working correctly.
Fixed NPC buy/sell orders not honouring minimum amounts.
Fixed ships stuck waiting for upgrades.
Fixed error messages when attempting to unlock EMP-induced data leaks on ships.
Fixed dock speed limits being applied when travel mode is active.
Fixed ships docking at moving objects appearing to strafe very quickly at certain times.
Fixed police ships remaining in space where they no longer have police authority.
Fixed some factions' police ships not being named as police.
Fixed defence drones belonging to Teladi Trading Stations not docking after completing their tasks.
Fixed stations potentially trying to trade with other stations when they no longer have any available cargo drones.
Fixed ships built for invasions sometimes not performing their intended orders.
Fixed subordinates not responding to attacks in some cases.
Fixed ships attacking targets outside their engagement area when on their way to their engagement area.
Fixed squadron subordinates getting distracted by hostile targets encountered while on their way to join their commander.
Fixed subordinates of carriers waiting for the player's permission before undocking to attack if player is on board the carrier.
Fixed station-based miners and traders not updating their range when they or their manager improve in skill.
Fixed construction vessels not always being unassigned when a station is destroyed.
Fixed NPC ships not firing their weapons when attacking under certain circumstances.
Fixed turrets set to Fire on my current target only firing sporadically when current target is a station.
Fixed turrets set to Attack my current target periodically stopping firing.
Fixed player-flown ships with turrets set to mining mode only acquiring asteroids 3km away regardless of mining turret range.
Fixed mass traffic sometimes using the wrong ships directly after loading a savegame.
Fixed asteroids in certain regions sometimes ending up with negative mineral yields.
Fixed incorrectly-scaled rendering of paint mods when redesigning certain ships.
Fixed promotion of crew to pilots removing existing pilot from ship.
Fixed object selection failing in the map when switching between tabs.
Fixed cases where map continued panning/rotating even after having released all mouse buttons.
Fixed station building menu asking to confirm loss of changes if nothing was changed.
Fixed station building menu not updating when a module build finishes.
Fixed returning venture ships sometimes being displayed in an incorrect location on the map.
Fixed map object list not showing the correct player logo for player-owned sectors.
Fixed supply settings for Drones and Missiles in Logical Station Overview.
Fixed workforce information in Logical Station Overview being greyed-out
Fixed player map icon being very large in certain situations.
Fixed external view on surface elements.
Fixed targeting while in spacesuit.
Fixed loot-magnet sound stuck after auto-save.
Fixed tooltip text getting stuck in the station build menu when using the controller mouse emulation.
Fixed various NPC pathing issues on platforms.
Fixed NPC rubber-banding when talked to while walking.
Fixed detached habitation modules during AI station construction (existing station layouts are not affected).
Fixed factions building more defence stations than they should.
Fixed situation where ships could appear stuck in internal storage.
Fixed missing localisation of several texts in menus.
Fixed several localisation issues in mission texts.
Fixed being able to fly into planets.
Fixed NPCs walking in front of pilot in Demeter and Hermes.
Fixed Pulsar's right weapon being visually disconnected from hull.
Fixed Nodan lights not turning on.
Fixed missing mode visualisation in Nodan cockpit.
Fixed Xenon capital ship engines not having animated exhaust flames.
Fixed duplicate display on panel in Kestrel cockpit.
Fixed missing geometry on side of Discoverer Vanguard.
Fixed missing external geometry when standing on Incarcatura bridge.
Fixed Incarcatura bridge location.
Fixed missing ID code panel on Odysseus.
Fixed being able to walk through desks in engineering section.
Fixed menu crash when opening the map legend in certain cases.
Fixed menu crash when upgrading a damaged ship and then trying to select a different ship.
Fixed Empire Menu breaking if menu attempts to display other menus.
Fixed game freeze in certain situations.
Fixed case of player falling through floor of flying ships.
Fixed not being able to use the joystick POV for cockpit camera movement.
Fixed some Teladi NPCs not moving their mouths when speaking.
Fixed Split female eye blink animation.
Fixed inability to remap some camera controls.
Fixed incorrect carriage return in version number in start/options menu (Linux only).
Fixed possible system memory leak when low on graphics memory.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed aim ahead indicator no longer being displayed and some other minor targeting glitches.

Improved balancing and robustness of in-game economy (including prices, volume and production rates of Engine Parts, Hull Parts and Smart Chips).
Improved Logical Station Overview (added storage allocation, buy/sell limits, module state, production module grouping).
Improved station Info menu (added intermediate wares, filled storage capacities by type).
Improved station-based traders (coordination between traders, selection of stations to trade at, use of cargo that is excess or needed by their station).
Improved pirate behaviour by increasing variety of wares that pirates are interested in.
Improved trader deal selection and cargo space utilisation logic.
Improved automatic resupply by preventing player-owned ships from automatically getting deployables.
Improved ships rearming at resupply ships by only ordering what the resupply ship can build.
Improved upkeep mission priority for ship pilot and station manager vacancies from medium priority to high.
Improved ship combat AI by reducing use of boost to avoid completely draining shields.
Improved ship AI by allowing pilots to target, and be able to destroy, stations that are under construction.
Improved aggressiveness of NPC ships in response to attack when on their way to combat.
Improved range of high-tech wares stocked at most Trading Stations.
Improved capital ships docking at stations and movement through gates.
Improved shipyard build queue processing so newer ships are less likely to jump the queue.
Improved shipyard build queue handling when all docks are full.
Improved loadouts of small fighters by reducing chances of them using missiles, especially torpedo launchers.
Improved mining yield by increasing cargo capacity of mining ships by 100%.
Improved coordination between multiple mining ships assigned to the same station.
Improved behaviour of laser towers attacking stations.
Improved station AI by reassigning mining ships told to mine if they no longer need mineable wares when station configuration changes.
Improved carrier combat if carrier has direct subordinates and is directly attacking a target.
Improved ship movement in various situations (including moving through a gate, leaving a local highway in the middle, moving to distant objects).
Improved travel mode handling while going through gates and into highways.
Improved autopilot travel mode usage.
Improved damage applied to shields and turrets in out-of-sector combat to better match in-sector observations.
Improved info menu for station build storage to show amounts and display resources even if build storage currently doesn't have any.
Improved map to allow trade wares without current valid trade offers to be shown on the map.
Improved "ping" effect to be less obtrusive if multiple mission targets are present.
Improved Russian font.
Added Russian voice recordings.
Added consumption and production numbers to storage nodes in Logical Station Overview.
Added ability to assign ships to trade for resources for a station's build storage to assist in station construction.
Added Anchor space for orders AutoTrade, Sector AutoMine, AdvancedAutoMine and Expert AutoMine to the order queue menu.
Added possibility to sell resources and buy products and trade wares.
Added new resource region to Cardinal's Redress to help with Holy Order resource shortage.
Removed Tobii options if no Tobii device is detected.
Fixed stations under construction not being killable when out of sector.
Fixed Xenon asteroid stations not being killable in certain situations.
Fixed target speed matching not working when in relative movement to the target or after having pressed Full Stop.
Fixed destroying pirates that are showing their true colours sometimes resulting in a reputation penalty with the sector's police faction.
Fixed pirates attacking ships even if they are not interested in them.
Fixed pirates sometimes fleeing before attacking after just saying that they will attack.
Fixed space suit not undocking correctly from moving ships.
Fixed fleet auxiliary ships with behaviour to Supply Fleets in a space rather than as part of a fleet not enabling trade offers.
Fixed fleet auxiliary ships not advertising trade offers when subordinate to a station.
Fixed fleet auxiliary ships wanting to dock at themselves to get supplies and repairs.
Fixed resupply orders sometimes resulting in incorrect ammo and units.
Fixed resupply ships told to Get Supplies sometimes trying to purchase more than they can afford.
Fixed ship state breaking if player takes over a ship that is in the process of getting repairs or supplies at a fleet auxiliary ship.
Fixed Get Supplies order trying to purchase more wares than the ship has cargo space for.
Fixed ships attempting to collect crates with countermeasures although they have no space for them.
Fixed ships being unable to transfer deployables via ware exchange in certain situations.
Fixed ships trying to get equipment at equipment docks they cannot dock at.
Fixed pirate capital ships repeatedly trying to get equipment.
Fixed ships sometimes fleeing after getting ammunition.
Fixed player-owned ships that need ammo and/or drones in addition to repairs not going to get repairs if they couldn't find a resupply ship that can supply everything they need.
Fixed player-owned ships getting repairs at resupply ships when automatic resupply is Off.
Fixed ships that need ammunition to fight not considering fleet auxiliary ships assigned to supply ships in their sector.
Fixed docked ships given an order to trade or exchange wares with the object they are docked at undocking and docking again.
Fixed ships assigned to mine for stations ignoring blacklist if blacklisted sector is in the same cluster as their station.
Fixed ships pursuing targets to beyond their operational range when not authorised to do so in certain situations.
Fixed various cases of ships trying to do things with objects in other sectors.
Fixed docking ships not being responsive to attacks when their order is not critical.
Fixed ships waiting to dock at a resupply ship that is currently busy waiting indefinitely.
Fixed ships getting stuck waiting for an undock clearance that may never come.
Fixed capital ships getting stuck while docking.
Fixed station-based traders sometimes buying at a loss.
Fixed capital ships sometimes moving too close to their targets when attacking.
Fixed capital ships attempting to park at docked fleet auxiliary ships.
Fixed ships trying to fly through station geometry in certain situations.
Fixed ships sometimes not finishing their movement.
Fixed specified formation not being applied to fleet auxiliary ships.
Fixed wings set to use formation Circle or Semicircle changing to Line Abreast or Line Astern.
Fixed incorrect entry movement of ships in Accelerators and, in some cases, Jump Gates.
Fixed carriers ordering subordinates to attack targets that were once hostile when they no longer are.
Fixed wing leaders fighting over orphaned wingmen when taking control of them.
Fixed police ships ignoring illegal wares dropped in lockboxes in response to an inspection.
Fixed ships deciding to open a lockbox when explicitly told not to.
Fixed non-smuggling traders trading wares in areas where those wares are illegal.
Fixed smugglers only trading with non-hostile factions.
Fixed missing restriction for trading with current player ship while docked.
Fixed ships sometimes flying excessively large turns.
Fixed pilots sometimes aborting travel mode without good reason.
Fixed autopilot aborting while still tens of kilometres from the target.
Fixed autopilot aborting when transitioning through a ring highway gate.
Fixed ships entering jump gates and accelerators from the side.
Fixed ships sometimes jumping by many kilometres when the player comes near.
Fixed rare situation that could leave ships docked at wrecked platforms.
Fixed station-based traders trying to sell more than they will have.
Fixed station-based traders getting stuck addressing resource shortages that the player has explicitly set to not be purchased.
Fixed station-based traders selling off existing cargo ignoring faction restriction set on their commander.
Fixed traders subordinate to a station sometimes all becoming dormant when they get a new manager who was transferred from a different station.
Fixed station-based drones not docking at station when Recall Subordinates is issued on the station.
Fixed stations missing opportunities to trade with other stations for lack of cargo drones (improves previous fix).
Fixed NPC-owned stations permanently selling off resources which were only meant to be sold temporarily.
Fixed NPC-owned trading capital ships attempting to trade while not having transport drones.
Fixed player being able to change assignments of drones thereby making the drones unrecoverable.
Fixed multiple cases that led to defence drones being docked without being collected.
Fixed Xenon installations not having enough defences.
Fixed wharves and equipment docks not being rebuilt by factions.
Fixed non-factory stations potentially being expanded with production modules.
Fixed estimated build time for ships not taking state of shipyard into account.
Fixed station module recycling not aborting if module was destroyed.
Fixed wrecked station modules being recycled too early.
Fixed low-attention mining of capital ships not accounting for ore collector drones.
Fixed player- and visitor-owned ships ordered to Distribute Wares only selling to shipyards and wharves.
Fixed blueprints for 8M Standard Dock Area not being obtainable.
Fixed fired NPCs not leaving their post.
Fixed XP gain calculations for combat incorrectly determining force strength of allies and enemies.
Fixed falling through floor when returning from external view.
Fixed problem with re-assigning crew at the ship trader.
Fixed safe deposit box not working if the player has no or little money.
Fixed ware exchange failing if it involves a ship having to dock at another ship.
Fixed guild missions stalling if the mission station was destroyed at certain times.
Fixed money exploit involving build station missions.
Fixed venture platform exploit.
Fixed player being blamed for attacks they were not involved in.
Fixed some cases where dock guidance splines always went through station geometry.
Fixed inactive orders not being greyed out on the map if they are the first order in the queue.
Fixed order queue menu not showing the assignment for fleet auxiliary ships assigned to supply a fleet.
Fixed Object List and Property Owned sections in the map not being collapsible if any child is selected.
Fixed incorrect map centring when opening it while having a super highway selected.
Fixed start position of map when assigning a construction vessel.
Fixed "Are you sure?" question in station build menu showing up when closing an empty plot.
Fixed large number of orders breaking the behaviour tab in the map (corrects previous fix).
Fixed DPS calculations shown in Encyclopedia and used for low-attention combat calculations.
Fixed missing shield info for S and M ships in Encyclopedia.
Fixed selection mismatch in menus with multi-selection when scrolling with keyboard or controller.
Fixed station build menu being unusable due to constant refreshes in certain situations.
Fixed station build menu not retaining the selected module category after returning from selecting a construction vessel or the encyclopedia.
Fixed unusable blacklist drop-downs for some resolution and UI scale combinations.
Fixed Remove Assignment button in order queue menu not functioning.
Fixed UI issues if trade wares are turned into resources or products by adding new production module.
Fixed mission context menu in the map sometimes being cut-off.
Fixed being able to open an invisible menu with Object Info hotkey when HUD and menus are disabled.
Fixed slider input in the station build menu being interrupted by the menu refreshing.
Fixed menu crash when restoring a minimised menu.
Fixed menu crash when interacting with the target monitor while it shows a collectable or a crate.
Fixed menu crash in the plot placement section of the map under certain circumstances.
Fixed Radar Display game option not always working correctly.
Fixed Boost Toggle game option not working at all.
Fixed suspense music triggering around enemy build storage for destroyed stations.
Fixed broken voice playback when closing Timeline menu.
Fixed game becoming unresponsive if a ship in a superhighway moves to another ship in a superhighway.
Fixed game freezing if commander of a wing is sent on a venture.
Fixed rare freeze in a certain type of mission.
Fixed several performance issues in specific situations.
Fixed several causes of memory leaks.
Fixed several causes of crashes.
Worked around known issue with NVIDIA Ansel to prevent troubleshooting page appearing when quitting the game.

Fixed construction drones on shipyards becoming permanently unavailable.
Fixed build time estimates not correctly taking available units into account.
Fixed medium mining ships sometimes moving back and forth without mining anything if the player is close by.
Fixed medium mining ships sometimes not using their turrets to break down asteroids.
Fixed some savegames failing to load.
Fixed specific startup issues on Linux.
Enabled Steam cloud sync on Linux and SteamOS.

New Feature: New storyline, introducing diplomatic missions "A Lever to Move the World".
New Feature: New unlockable game start.
New Feature: Standalone tutorial game starts including a flight school.
New Feature: New systems, ships and weapons.
New Feature: Improved graphics engine to support new visual effects.
New Feature: Better sound effects.
New Feature: Virtual seminars and quicker skill progression for crew training.
New Feature: Configurable alert system.
New Feature: Individual and group crew transfer.
New Feature: Policing options for player-owned space.
New Feature: Ability to dock using a spacesuit directly.
New Feature: More control over drones and turrets.
New Feature: Improvements to menus including Map, Encyclopedia, Logical Station Overview and Logbook.
New Feature: Improved target display and mission guidance.
New Feature: Oxygen display when player is in spacesuit.
New Feature: Alternative steering methods including head tracking systems and X3 retro mode.
New Feature: Search facility for Logbook.
New Feature: French voice recordings.
Added groups for organisation of squad subordinates.
Added new assignments for fleet subordinates.
Added Trade assignment for subordinates of fleet auxiliary ships.
Added resource requirements for research.
Added skill gains for crews opening lockboxes, exploring ships discovering stations and gates, and returning from ventures.
Added Distress Drones sent from ships attacked in friendly territory but far away from any stations, to report attacks to the police.
Added weapon mods that increase damage done to surface elements.
Added new paint themes for player ships.
Added race-based engine trail colours.
Added new missions and more variations to existing missions.
Added Destroy Station and Destroy Station Turret missions to War Subscriptions.
Added mission offers to some NPCs on stations.
Added notification if new mission is interrupting existing important mission.
Added character images to some mission briefings.
Added order parameter to forbid attacking ships from boosting.
Added order to collect player-owned deployables.
Added drone modes to specify when defence drones launch.
Added Attack Capital Ships and Attack Fighters weapon modes.
Added Start Guidance to Object option to interact menu of drops.
Added shortcut to scan ships in scan mode.
Added some speed control while speed matching is active.
Added NPC skills and post/role to target monitor.
Added information about pilot's current command to Behaviour menu.
Added new Info tabs in map and updated layout.
Added ship type to Info menu for ships.
Added subordinate list to Info menu for ships and stations.
Added surface element hull status to loadout Info tab.
Added currently-active weapon groups to Info menu including option to change them.
Added information about which factions produce ship to Info menu and Encyclopedia.
Added known production module overview per sector to Encyclopedia.
Added list of all known blueprints (and whether they are owned) to Encyclopedia.
Added list of known illegal wares to the Encyclopedia entries of factions with police forces.
Added new-entry marker to individual Encyclopedia and Timeline entries.
Added information on which inventory items are obtainable via crafting to Encyclopedia.
Added ship statistics for turret and engine group shields, and turret damage output.
Added separate Encyclopedia category for paint mods.
Added consumption and production numbers to storage nodes in Logical Station Overview.
Added Accept Estimate options to Station Info menu and Logical Station Overview.
Added Alert and News categories to Logbook.
Added new mission bar pointing to changed mission objective.
Added discount and commission information to Trade menu.
Added weapon group shortcuts to Controls Option menu.
Added display of craftable amount of equipment mods in the mod overview
Added more information about crew availability when purchasing or upgrading ships.
Added hint information showing reason when docking request is not possible.
Added icon distinguishing ware filters from text searches in Map.
Added station icons to Object List and Property Owned menus.
Added icon next to supply-related trade offers.
Added new icon for stations under construction.
Added HUD icons to show what kind of missile is loaded in missile launcher.
Added more suitable icons for service crew and marines.
Added visible capital ship geometry on map when zoomed in sufficiently.
Added Request Docking Permission option to the interact menu of docking bays.
Added option to arm/disarm turrets in ship interaction menu.
Added option to call stored ships to dock via its console.
Added option to activate/deactivate multiple deployables at once.
Added option to install weapon mods on turret groups.
Added option to control the turret modes on stations.
Added option to focus map on object currently viewed in Info or Behaviour menu.
Added Remove All Assignments option when multiple ships are selected on map.
Added Flee option to interact menu of player-owned ships.
Added options to Flee or Attack to conversation when acknowledging ship coming under attack.
Added Undo/Redo options to Ship Configuration menu.
Added option to hide statistics section in Logical Station Overview.
Added option to hide statistics in Ship Configuration menu.
Added option to move order positions up and down on map.
Added support for dragging positions of all orders which show position information on map.
Added option to filter player-owned trade offers on map.
Added option to show faction colours instead of relation colours on map.
Added option to give orders to currently-occupied player-owned ship in external view when not controlling that ship.
Added Interact menu option to collect individual deployables.
Added option to disable highlighting of other visiting players in map and radar.
Added option to map shortcuts to toggle turret arming and drone launching.
Added option to set up default loadout levels for station modules per station.
Added possibility to confirm second ship upgrade if first upgrade finished while Ship Config menu was open.
Added possibility to restrict individual factions from buying ships at player-owned shipyards and wharves.
Added option to rename ships in Ship Config menu when building/upgrading.
Added option to rename player-owned stations.
Added option to rename fleets (formerly known as wings).
Added option to change player organisation name independently from player name.
Added option to export Logbook as tab-separated text file (use "/exportlogbook example.txt" in chat window, exports to game sub-folder of documents folder).
Added support for showing pages in Logbook thereby removing limit of 1000 entries that can be shown.
Added tooltips for cut-off ware names in Inventory menu.
Added options to invert emulated mouse cursor axes and mouse steering controls.
Added cursor movement, selection and delete features to text edit boxes.
Added 'station' keyword to map search.
Added input icons in Controls menu and several other menus.
Added 'forcehmd' command line parameter for head tracking systems.
Added confirmation when entering space suit.
Added confirmation when remapping controls for which there are conflicts.
Added mouse-over text for ship order icons in Object List and Property Owned.
Added option to opt out of some confirmation messages.
Added medium quality option for Screen Space Reflections.
Added chromatic aberration option.
Added new sector-specific music.
Added music to Player Headquarters reveal.
Added sound effect when setting missions to active.
Added sound device selection option.
Changed Bomber ship type designation to Gunboat.
Changed faction colours to make them easier to distinguish.
Changed timeline Encyclopedia entries to remain known across different games.
Changed relation threshold for invasions to start.
Changed two standard player logos.
Changed effect of UI scale slider to result in better UI scale behaviour at common resolutions, especially with wide resolutions.
Changed glass properties to avoid excessive glare.
Removed loadout options from ship configuration menu at resupply ships.
Removed possibility to give new orders to ships without a pilot.
Removed restrictions for reassigning crew (via comm) on a single ship in space.
Removed 500m restriction for activating/deactivating deployables.
Removed Squad category from Logbook (merged with Upkeep category).
Removed countermeasure display in crosshair when player is in spacesuit.
Removed option to deploy consumables in highways.
Improved some gate positions and orientations.
Improved faction mine placement.
Improved behaviour of fleeing ships.
Improved chances of morale gain.
Improved low attention combat calculations.
Improved trader deal selection and cargo space utilisation logic.
Improved fighter behaviour by preventing them using boost in combat if they have less than 50% shields.
Improved cargo drone handling of crates that get destroyed.
Improved smuggler behaviour by adjusting wares traded in depending on what is illegal in their area of operation.
Improved Explore order behaviour and parameters.
Improved AI/autopilot collision avoidance when flying through asteroid fields.
Improved fleet coordination when moving through gates.
Improved handling of capital ships with no cargo drones trying to Get Supplies.
Improved stability of drones undocking from capital ships.
Improved encounters by increasing distance from sector centre that system considers deep-space.
Improved character pathing on large dock areas to better take elevator distances into account.
Improved behaviour of undocking ships waiting for the player to get off to proceed if told to do so.
Improved ammunition usage of stations when player is not present.
Improved transition from travel mode to docking by allowing ships to approach closer with travel mode active.
Improved automatic storage allocation when multiple different storage types (container, solid, liquid) are available.
Improved detection of gravidar contacts in remote sectors.
Improved Protect Station order to include protection of station construction sites.
Improved Attack capital ships turret mode to also fire on stations.
Improved combat movement of capital ships with forward-mounted weapons.
Improved fighters attacking S or M ships in low attention.
Improved stations firing on targets in low attention.
Improved behaviour of formations flying in travel mode.
Improved weapon distribution among NPC ships.
Improved distribution of drones for loadout presets.
Improved missile variety in use by NPC ships.
Improved engine characteristics of capital ships.
Improved balancing of defence modules by increasing hull value.
Improved balancing of weapons and ships.
Improved pirate balancing by reducing number of Scale Plate pirates.
Improved crystal collection balancing by limiting number of valuable crystals on asteroids.
Improved decision-making on responding to distress calls.
Improved skill gain for ships trading with their own stations.
Improved weapon aiming stability when time is accelerated and/or frame-rate is low.
Improved aiming accuracy of weapons and turrets.
Improved several cases of shakiness when flying on autopilot.
Improved in-game tutorials.
Improved mission reward scaling with faction relation.
Improved chance of mission rewards including mod parts or seminars at high faction relation levels.
Improved trigger conditions for station budget transfer upkeep missions.
Improved layout of full crew list in Crew Info menu with sorting and context menu.
Improved information about licence requirements at blueprint trader and in Encyclopedia.
Improved visual consistency of building and recycling station modules.
Improved station construction display to only show lines to two closest compatible connections.
Improved presentation of already-built modules in station Build menu by grouping by type.
Improved shopping list in ship Build menu.
Improved logbook to show entries for player-owned ships being attacked or destroyed in red.
Improved log message for received surplus, stating location instead of trader name.
Improved sorting of objects by name in Map.
Improved categorisation of missions and mission offers in map.
Improved order UI to better show and manage override orders (e.g. a response to a pirate attack or telling a ship to flee)
Improved layout of Object List and Property Owned menus in Map to reduce text cut-off.
Improved display of active and total drone amounts in Object Info menu.
Improved visualisation of modes with charge time such as Travel Mode or SETA.
Improved Logbook timestamps to show how much time has passed since logbook entry.
Improved Save and Load menus.
Improved target monitor display for construction sites and resource probes.
Improved context menu header when using context menu while having other ships selected.
Improved menu navigation with controller/keyboard in Player Information menu.
Improved precision of weapon range values in Encyclopedia.
Improved visibility of current order icon in Object List and Property Owned menus.
Improved custom savegame naming behaviour.
Improved subtitles by making them wider and preventing last lines from having only one word.
Improved map visualisation indicating whether filter layers are active or not.
Improved layout of various menus in ultra-wide resolutions.
Improved performance in Accepted Missions menu with many missions.
Improved support for gamepad text input overlay for Steam Big Picture mode.
Improved visibility of game hints.
Improved player appearance (in-game!).
Improved brightness of lowlighted trade offer text to make it actually readable.
Improved glow effect for ship and station lights.
Improved suspense music behaviour to reduce interruptions to normal music.
Improved sector-specific music behaviour to play more often.
Improved performance in a number of situations.
Improved Tobii support.
Fixed some cases where autopilot aborted prematurely.
Fixed AI ships and autopilot sometimes aborting travel mode for no reason at all.
Fixed NPC-owned ships attached to fleets with resupply ship not preferring their designated resupply ship.
Fixed laser towers not being able to aim correctly against player ship.
Fixed ships failing to disengage when attacking target whose ownership changes due to being abandoned.
Fixed fighters continuing to fire forward-mounted guns while firing forward-mounted missiles.
Fixed docked ships firing their forward-mounted weapons.
Fixed rare case resulting in ships docked at wrecked platforms.
Fixed player-owned ships sometimes pursuing targets acquired while on long-distance movement to beyond their engagement area.
Fixed boarding ships with turrets continuing to fire on boarding target below hull threshold in retaliation to being fired upon.
Fixed long-term deadlock caused by capital ships restocking at fleet auxiliary ships that do not have enough resources.
Fixed ships waiting a very long time for subordinates to dock when they have already done so.
Fixed assigned ships not being able to be manually ordered to trade with build storage of new stations.
Fixed non-player-owned ships never trying to shoot at missiles.
Fixed undocking ships finding themselves far from the thing they were undocking from.
Fixed ships ordered to stop by police stopping even if they had previously received a preceding order that took them to a different sector.
Fixed ships docking at stations always moving towards station's icon before moving to dock with some station setups.
Fixed ships' captains saying Awaiting Orders after attacking if their default order potentially leads to attack.
Fixed ships with turrets not stopping firing if they change ownership and their targets are no longer hostile.
Fixed ships no longer attacking after losing their commander while in formation.
Fixed player-owned ships executing Explore order ignoring player-set policy in response to finding lockboxes.
Fixed turrets sometimes shooting at targets that are not valid for their mode.
Fixed another case of station-based drones not being recovered.
Fixed ships in combat not consuming ammunition when player is not present.
Fixed ships being able to be set to protect stations or ships that are hostile to them.
Fixed pirates inadvertently causing limited wars between NPC factions.
Fixed pirates trying to steal from other pirates belonging to the same faction.
Fixed sector patrols only patrolling small area within sector.
Fixed police ships responding to their own distress calls.
Fixed escape pods attempting to look for stations in a highway.
Fixed escape pod behaviour to be consistent whether player is present or not.
Fixed pods used to claim abandoned ships sometimes not being cleaned up.
Fixed mining ships mining in hostile territory.
Fixed stations with automatic unit settings sometimes dismantling units and working with a reduced amount.
Fixed ships sometimes ignoring certain highways for in-sector travel.
Fixed displayed speed being too low in some highways.
Fixed weapons not properly activating or deactivating when assigned to both primary and secondary groups.
Fixed ships doing damage with forward-mounted weapons to targets not in front of them when in low attention.
Fixed ships with turrets being able to shoot docked ships in low attention.
Fixed disarmed turrets doing damage in low attention.
Fixed Ion weapons doing damage to hull when player is not present.
Fixed attacking capital ships getting distracted by attacking fighters.
Fixed excessive delays when ordering a ship to deploy deployables at a location.
Fixed boarding pods sometimes flying to random location before moving to their target.
Fixed Match Speed remaining enabled when activating travel mode.
Fixed weapons not properly activating or deactivating when assigned to both primary and secondary groups.
Fixed ships failing to collect drones in crates.
Fixed behaviour of transport drones collecting crates for capital ships.
Fixed drones fleeing when attacked.
Fixed orphaned defence drones getting orders to patrol sector.
Fixed cargo drones failing to transfer inventory items in collected crates to their drone commander's captain.
Fixed inactive satellites still uncovering space.
Fixed lasertowers launched by fleeing ships not shooting at their attacker.
Fixed dropped inventory/cargo crates that cannot be picked up by ship that dropped them due to missing collisions.
Fixed docked ship that player just relinquished control of waiting for player to tell it to proceed even if ship's current order does not require it to undock.
Fixed potential cause of friendly NPC factions attacking each other due to accidental friendly fire.
Fixed player-owned ships claiming credit for finding lockboxes that the player had directed other player-owned ships to collect.
Fixed stations sometimes reporting friendly ships attacking hostile ships.
Fixed ships fleeing from pirate or police ships sometimes fleeing towards their attacker.
Fixed visitor ships sometimes already having enemies when they only just arrived.
Fixed some Argon and Antigone ships not having crews.
Fixed EMP missile effects on travel mode and boost.
Fixed being able to claim ships by using EMP and repairing signal leak.
Fixed Ion weapons requiring only general use equipment licence.
Fixed being able to unlock trade subscriptions at enemy stations.
Fixed very long stations (usually those whose station icon is at one end) sometimes not firing upon targets.
Fixed item traders on player-owned stations sometimes not appearing or always being Scale Plate Pact.
Fixed pirates hacking station storage not reacting to cover being blown or station being destroyed.
Fixed capital ships doing little or no damage in low attention under certain conditions.
Fixed ships doing no damage to targets that have just started boosting in low attention.
Fixed some ships not uncovering map.
Fixed station modules sometimes not repairing to 100%.
Fixed Trading Stations not being rebuilt.
Fixed build processes taking longer than they should.
Fixed stations not ordering components to build turrets if no other module changes are made.
Fixed shipyards and equipment docks repairing all damaged components if only hull repairs are ordered.
Fixed shipyards and equipment docks failing to repair wrecked surface elements.
Fixed shipyards not processing queue if they are unable to build first queued ship.
Fixed player-owned Builder ships not being selectable if missing funds.
Fixed being able to hire enemy Builder ships.
Fixed NPC subordinate ships not being built as often as they should.
Fixed ships not restocking wanted units and ammo reliably.
Fixed ships and stations with turrets sometimes not firing on targets they are attacking.
Fixed cancellation of Dock order clearing associated Dock and Wait behaviour.
Fixed being able to equip additional turrets of types that are unknown to shipyard/wharf/equipment dock.
Fixed some mass traffic not appearing around stations of certain factions.
Fixed missing criminal traffic in Destroy Criminal Traffic missions.
Fixed workforce providing full efficiency bonus when workforce capacity was maxed out regardless of optimal workforce requirements.
Fixed discrepancies in boarding strength and marine numbers when ships marines are launched from are destroyed or removed from an ongoing boarding operation.
Fixed signal leaks appearing on Kha'ak/Xenon stations.
Fixed best marines of a specified rank sometimes not being selected for boarding operations.
Fixed ships in fleets whose fleet commander is fleet auxiliary ship or carrier not resupplying at their fleet commander.
Fixed fleet subordinates sometimes failing to dock at their fleet commander.
Fixed patrolling ships getting distracted by empty station plots.
Fixed trading ships blocking docking bay they just undocked from while working out which trades to do next.
Fixed ships docking at ships that change ownership to hostile not always aborting dock attempt.
Fixed subordinates of ships with docking facilities sometimes not responding to external events for excessive periods after having docked.
Fixed subordinates potentially waiting a long time if their commander moves into highway or through gate to different sector while in formation.
Fixed fighter escorts flying in formation not doing damage to their commander's target in combat when player is not present.
Fixed ships remaining subordinate to sold ships.
Fixed crew of ship that is personally piloted by player not getting skill gains.
Fixed mission to retrieve item from target ship not having an objective to return it.
Fixed mismatch between upkeep mission to give station managers more money and corresponding notification in message ticker.
Fixed budgets of player-owned stations changing when funds are transferred to or from station build storage.
Fixed player-owned stations seeming to transfer 0 Credits to player account.
Fixed player-owned shipyards and equipment docks that make no money from trades not sending surplus funds to player account.
Fixed station budget being incorrectly set when taking money from stations using Account Management menu.
Fixed funds on build storage and station accounts not being transferred back to player when objects are destroyed or removed.
Fixed managers being mysteriously removed.
Fixed cases where NPCs assigned to objects do not arrive and remain missing.
Fixed fired NPCs not disembarking their previous ship if able.
Fixed station rooms changing doors when revisiting.
Fixed Xenon wharves not being able to rebuild their build modules.
Fixed frozen build modules that are otherwise fully operational.
Fixed player-owned build storage no longer functioning because of missing manager.
Fixed Muon Charger doing full damage even if not fully charged.
Fixed crew sometimes bailing with every bullet hit.
Fixed ships sometimes getting stuck after undocking.
Fixed pirates pretending to be ships on ventures.
Fixed being able to hire pilots with unintentionally high skill ratings.
Fixed being able to teleport to ships that are docked at ships that are themselves in internal storage.
Fixed ships with very unskilled crews never deciding to flee.
Fixed ship crews not gaining experience for opening lockboxes in low attention.
Fixed ships with turrets continuing to fire on targets that they are trying to disable although targets are below hull threshold.
Fixed ships recalling subordinates while in combat.
Fixed boarding ships sometimes not launching boarding pods when they should.
Fixed XS laser towers getting stuck on deployment.
Fixed data vaults not visibly retaining their state when returned to later.
Fixed unlocking signal leaks sometimes not having an effect.
Fixed cases of large red walls appearing inside some corridors.
Fixed some interior doors opening into empty space.
Fixed doors sometimes staying open when they should close.
Fixed teleporter cabin door not opening reliably.
Fixed sometimes not being able to target an NPC by pointing at the body.
Fixed inability to re-scan previously-scanned ships that have returned to a covered state.
Fixed turrets from generated presets not being applied.
Fixed repair laser causing shield recharge to reset.
Fixed player facing wall after teleporting.
Fixed managers and ship traders on player-owned stations sometimes being missing from rooms.
Fixed pilots being visible outside of boarding pods and certain mass traffic ships.
Fixed case of invisible NPCs on stations.
Fixed floating or missing NPC icons in rooms.
Fixed spontaneously jumping to a different sector while flying around.
Fixed ships sometimes warping to extreme distances when accidentally entering gate.
Fixed more cases of ships ending up very far from the centre of their sector.
Fixed case where player ship could suddenly change rotation when opening map.
Fixed equipment mods gaining extra properties when saving and reloading.
Fixed laser towers and mines deployed by player as part of mission not changing ownership.
Fixed upkeep missions to assign crew not completing until crew take control.
Fixed possible duplicate rewards for board ship mission.
Fixed game starts not being unlocked when they should.
Fixed excessive sector zoom on map.
Fixed ability to sell mandatory software upgrades.
Fixed shield and hull values in Selected Objects section of map being calculated incorrectly.
Fixed station icons or mission guidance sometimes ending up outside the sector hex on map.
Fixed selecting similar objects with double-clicks on the map.
Fixed radius display of some orders and mission objectives on map being scaled incorrectly.
Fixed newly-added resource regions not being reflected by hex colour on map.
Fixed Promote best crewmember to Pilot button crewmember in a state where they can't be reassigned.
Fixed default order not being shown on map if there are no other orders.
Fixed undamaged hull values on ships with hull mods sometimes showing as 99%.
Fixed wrecked stations being listed in Object List and Property Owned.
Fixed Info menu failing to load if viewing a ship that has more cargo stored than it has storage space for.
Fixed wrong blueprint error in Ship Build menu after returning from Encyclopedia.
Fixed station plan menu sometimes not showing resources for surface elements.
Fixed inconsistent Interact menu when selecting objects which you cannot give orders to on map.
Fixed positioning of blinking question mark icons on map.
Fixed incorrect text sizes on map when using aspect ratios other than 16:9.
Fixed missile turrets listed in Turret category of the encyclopedia.
Fixed broken Ship Interactions menu in rare circumstances.
Fixed docking UI staying on screen if docking is no longer possible due to relation loss.
Fixed all ships in Encyclopedia showing minimum ship capacity of 10.
Fixed certain orders such as Hold Position not being shown as map icons.
Fixed missing drop-down elements in Ship Interactions menu.
Fixed warnings not updating for different offers in full-screen Trade menu.
Fixed Info menu in map for ships under construction.
Fixed signal leak hints sometimes missing and the first hint only being displayed for 2 seconds.
Fixed broken Ship Interactions menu in rare circumstances.
Fixed Ship Interactions menu not working in certain circumstances.
Fixed floating capital ship bridges in Ship Configuration menu.
Fixed wrong missile capacity calculation when upgrading ships with destroyed missile turrets.
Fixed station module custom loadout presets not being able to be applied twice in a row.
Fixed Ship Configuration menu sometimes showing upgrades in wrong slots.
Fixed Ship Configuration menu not working any more after opening another menu via shortcut while its save loadout dialog was open.
Fixed missing menu elements in Ship Configuration menu in certain resolutions.
Fixed Show Ship Details comm option not showing Info menu when conversation was started from map.
Fixed double-clicking object in internal storage not correctly panning map to it.
Fixed missing Interact menu when new mode text is very short (e.g. in non-alphabetic languages).
Fixed incorrect options on Interact menu for player-owned ships without a pilot.
Fixed empty Ship Request menu in certain situations e.g. all external docks occupied.
Fixed ships showing empty holes instead of docking bays in Ship Configuration menu.
Fixed internally-stored subordinates sometimes not being listed in Object List.
Fixed Ship Interactions menu not working in ultra-wide resolutions.
Fixed Mission Briefing layout in ultra-wide resolutions.
Fixed Location and Object not being displayed in the Order Queue menu for one partner of a ware exchange.
Fixed Manage Funds option not opening correct information tab.
Fixed Manage Plot menu not working after opening map with superhighway as current target.
Fixed message about missing Builder ship from Station Build menu if no Builder ship actually needed.
Fixed missing error message while trading if both trade partners are missing cargo drones.
Fixed missing station module info in Station Build menu.
Fixed missing option to confirm trades if using Ctrl-RMB to initiate a trade.
Fixed wrong tool tip for buy offer amounts in Logical Station Overview.
Fixed incorrect number of owned ships in Statistics menu.
Fixed missing text when hiring builder with insufficient funds.
Fixed incorrect buy/sell amounts for products and resources that used to be trade wares.
Fixed incorrect results and menu crashes when using sliders for crew tiers when upgrading ships.
Fixed changing assignments in order queue menu not changing behaviour.
Fixed trade context menu missing elements in certain situations.
Fixed new-entry marker on certain items in Encyclopedia not being removed when entry is read.
Fixed weapons in weapon panel being displayed as active in both weapon sets, while weapon is only active in either primary or secondary set.
Fixed build progress display for station modules that are being rebuilt.
Fixed missing objective progress visualisation in mission briefing context menu.
Fixed conversation with manager working for player not displaying correct options.
Fixed missing shield info for S and M ships in Encyclopedia.
Fixed Encyclopedia entries for star systems not showing description texts.
Fixed wrong inventory wares being marked as read.
Fixed appearance of pending upgrade warning.
Fixed turret mode dropdown options not being in intended order.
Fixed order of ships in the undock menu.
Fixed jumping column selection in order queue.
Fixed player name reverting to default if aborting renaming process.
Fixed cases of NPC occupation name not matching crew gender (e.g. Crewman vs Crewwoman).
Fixed formatting error in construction-related Logbook messages.
Fixed Numpad key bindings not working for first-person movement on platforms.
Fixed mouse cursor remaining visible after saving game in first-person mode.
Fixed rare cases of target elements not being displayed while they should and vice-versa.
Fixed several cases of missing mission target element.
Fixed mission guidance for inactive missions being shown in white on map.
Fixed various issues with mission guidance.
Fixed mission guidance to docked capital ship.
Fixed several cases of docking guidance going through station geometry.
Fixed docking guidance not being visible when loading a savegame.
Fixed some cases of ships or docking guidance going through geometry.
Fixed guidance to ships inside local highways while the player is on capital ship.
Fixed non-working subtitles during intro scenes when starting a new game through Start menu.
Fixed missing target arrow if object is directly behind player.
Fixed target monitor occasionally getting stuck.
Fixed physics not working correctly in certain rooms until player enters.
Fixed very rare situation where ships could rapidly flicker between two positions.
Fixed Boost Toggle game option not working at all.
Fixed Pause key not working during text input.
Fixed issues when looking straight up or down in first person.
Fixed external target view sometimes incorrectly returning to cockpit.
Fixed savegame names not auto-generating correct location name after overwriting a save once (existing savegames will not be fixed automatically).
Fixed cases where text could be stuck on screen in first person mode.
Fixed cases where crosshair was missing in first person person mode.
Fixed broken docking UI when flying a capital ship that has dock connection on side.
Fixed cases where the interaction text shown in crosshair did not match available actions.
Fixed short freeze when opening the station build menu in some cases.
Fixed missing Initialising message when using quick-load.
Fixed several cases of menu selection jumping when switching between controller/joystick and mouse.
Fixed map search strings not being removed in certain resolutions and UI scale settings.
Fixed menu crash when accessing some context menus in ultra-wide resolutions.
Fixed menu crash in Logical Station Overview when building production for wares that used to be trade wares.
Fixed menu crash in Ship Configuration menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed menu crash in the Ship Behaviour menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed camera problems when talking to an NPC while the framerate is very low.
Fixed UI shaking when in first person.
Fixed weapon aim indicators not being visible when cockpit rendering is turned off.
Fixed weapon aim indicators sometimes being much too large.
Fixed Behemoth not being able to equip L-sized missile turrets.
Fixed shield position on Behemoth.
Fixed launch tubes of Nomad resupply ship.
Fixed missing windshield collision on Buzzard.
Fixed alignment of docks on Atlas in ship upgrade menu.
Fixed missing texture on Argon Trading Station wreck.
Fixed engines on Condor and Stork not being protected by shield generators (new ships only, fix for existing ships will be added in an upcoming build).
Fixed incorrect turret position on Magnetar.
Fixed missing faction logo and missing lights in transporter room on Nodan.
Fixed mirrored ID text on Plutus.
Fixed landing gear not being visible on Nodan and Quasar.
Fixed spotlights on Quasar not turning off after landing.
Fixed Nodan not reliably being able to pick up creates or be hit by enemies.
Fixed Atlas dock being in a wrong position in ship buy/upgrade menu.
Fixed flickering monitors in Nemesis cockpit.
Fixed asymmetric turret layout on Odysseus.
Fixed L-sized turrets firing bullets belonging to destroyer primary weapons.
Fixed some S-sized fighters not having any weapons.
Fixed war rooms or guild offices sometimes using incorrect corridor for race.
Fixed visible spacesuit wreckage.
Fixed broken voice playback when closing Timeline menu.
Fixed characters greeting the player repeatedly during a conversation.
Fixed sounds of M Bolt Repeaters lasting too long.
Fixed sounds of some weapons starting too early if fired after overheating.
Fixed sound problems with beam weapons.
Fixed AI ships often being too loud.
Fixed some sounds not being audible.
Fixed intermittent short sounds in space.
Fixed silent failure when saving very large savegames.
Fixed causes of several performance issues in specific circumstances.
Fixed regular pauses under certain Linux configurations.
Fixed very rare freeze condition.
Fixed several causes of minor memory leaks.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Added tooltips for cut-off research resource text.
Improved subordinate group auto-expanding in Object List and Property Owned menus.
Fixed turreted ships continuing to fire upon targets that have docked.
Fixed Split S shield generators being destructible.
Fixed Split factions not selling blueprints for L and XL construction modules.
Fixed missing default paint themes in Split game starts.
Fixed not being able to assign crew to start ship in Fires of Defeat gamestart.
Fixed Achieve Coverage mission being excessively difficult to complete.
Fixed Split gate discovery event ship (Argon Expedition or Escaped Slave Ship) not moving.
Fixed some mission objective texts not being localised.
Fixed mission briefing text for ship mod research mission.
Fixed platform guidance lines going haywire when in certain interiors, e.g. on Teladi trade stations.
Fixed stuck tooltips in certain situations.
Fixed several missing or incorrect English language voice recordings.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Added mission to expand HQ if selected research requires excessive resources.
Removed Dal Busta dialog option after Split story is completed.
Changed New Game menu to show tutorials at top.
Improved balance and pricing of recruitable personnel on station docks.
Improved performance for games where player owns very large number of ships and stations.
Improved colour differentiation between racial Construction Vessel ships.
Improved storage capacity of Split mining ships.
Improved mastering of legacy music tracks.
Fixed certain hazardous regions giving massive numbers of crystal drops.
Fixed wrong faction sometimes being blamed when ships or stations are destroyed.
Fixed mining drones not launching to collect broken-down asteroids they had earlier marked for collection but didn't collect due to cancellation.
Fixed cases of defence drones docking before all are launched sometimes preventing any further defence drones from being launched.
Fixed male Split characters sometimes having female voices with Split Vendetta installed.
Fixed HQ laboratory being removed when reconfiguring station.
Fixed AI ships attacking indestructible objects indefinitely.
Fixed player account balance potentially going below zero.
Fixed being completely unable to manually dock Drill without docking software.
Fixed hatch on Gorgon closing too soon when leaving in spacesuit.
Fixed high loadout presets not favouring Docking Computer Mk2 if compatible.
Fixed Elephant sometimes being equipped with Spacesuit Scanner.
Fixed Raptor not being able to mount large missile turrets.
Fixed build times for station modules taking much longer than they should.
Fixed spacesuit oxygen replenishing after saving and loading.
Fixed certain drops being repelled by container magnet.
Fixed lasertowers deployed by player in Hatikvah mission not changing owner
Fixed wrong player-owned ship sometimes being destroyed during HQ story.
Fixed invulnerable ship during Split plot.
Fixed Dal Busta not offering Split story at HQ after player rejects story offer until save and reload.
Fixed Dal Busta not offering Paranid/Split storyline when starting from Accomplished Scientist gamestart.
Fixed Dal Busta calling to talk about multiple plot opportunities at same time.
Fixed signal leaks not being generated in Accomplished Scientist gamestart
Fixed Paranid plot mission Prophetic Mission stalling because of missing dock.
Fixed Paranid plot getting stuck at Remain Vigilant objective.
Fixed excessive delay between HQ plot related signal leaks if one was previously missed.
Fixed missing equipment for multiple factions when starting Paranid plot with older saves.
Fixed Paranid plot battle taking place in wrong sector under rare circumstances.
Fixed excessive ware amounts required for final stage of Paranid plot.
Fixed Fires of Defeat gamestart long-term mission getting stuck because of captured ships.
Fixed Hatikvah story getting stuck in rare situations during bomb-placing mission.
Fixed various missions being offered by incorrect faction.
Fixed player ship not coming to stop during certain cutscenes.
Fixed missions offered by NPCs on dock areas incorrectly appearing in Mission Offers menu.
Fixed mismatched ships and loadouts when editing shopping list entries in Ship Configuration menu.
Fixed missile turret capacities not being included in loadout information.
Fixed lasertower engines and weapons being shown in Encyclopedia.
Fixed missing images for some objects in Encyclopedia.
Fixed missing option to delete incompatible saves in Load Game.
Fixed missing Dock Interactions menu in certain situations.
Fixed missing mouse picking on map after closing Mission Briefing in certain situations.
Fixed missing tabs in Property Owned menu in certain situations.
Fixed rectangular target elements being displayed in first person in certain situations.
Fixed further cases of NPCs not being targetable on platforms.
Fixed menu crash in Info menu in certain situations.
Fixed long but rare freeze on Map.
Fixed several cases of Split storage modules appearing offset in station build menu.
Fixed lower front windscreen not being transparent when looking from outside on Kestrel.
Fixed turret group assignment and position of some turrets on Rattlesnake, Monitor and Odysseus.
Fixed paint mods on Raptor not being aligned correctly.
Fixed Split flak turrets not using correct barrel geometry.
Fixed weapon positions on Mamba.
Fixed player logo not being properly visible on Monitor.
Fixed some missing voice recordings in German, French and Russian localisations.
Fixed engine sound problems under specific circumstances.
Fixed suspense music playing while on station.
Fixed graphical artefacts for AMD Navi GPUs (5600/5700).
Fixed rare problem with platform guidance causing performance to drop.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed savegames stuck during bomb section of Hatikvah plot.
Fixed Dal Busta not being in correct story location in certain savegames based on Accomplished Scientist gamestart.
Fixed missing NPC in Premium Nividium mission.
Fixed Split Plot not progressing during Suspicious Split transport mission when destination is destroyed.
Fixed excessive wares required for final stage of Split plot.
Fixed By Invitation Only mission getting stuck in certain cases.
Fixed Paranid plot missions Supreme Interior Design and A Fearsome Flagship getting stuck under certain circumstances.
Fixed Hall of Justice station not repairing damaged modules.
Fixed station wrecks starting to rotate when fully destroyed.
Fixed ships warping thousands of kilometres after going through a gate.
Fixed fog of war not being uncovered reliably.
Fixed Explore order not working correctly.
Fixed non-working interactions in first person.
Fixed stuck map panning in certain situations.
Fixed third party mods combined with Split Vendetta resulting in ever-growing savegames with increasing numbers of stations.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature: Trade Rules enable improved control over station trade offers, station supply offers and sale of ships.
Added links to "What is X4: Foundations?" video series to External Resources menu.
Added option to import and export individual construction plans to share with community.
Added information about original gamestart to Load and Save menus.
Added missile storage capacity information to missile turrets in Encyclopedia.
Added additional Object Information tab to Map menu.
Added Mark All as Read option to Encyclopedia.
Added icons to order options in Interact Menu.
Added button in info tabs to focus objects in map.
Added behaviour icons to Map legend.
Added ship type icons to ship selection in Ship Configuration menu.
Added faction abbreviations to Factions and Relations menu.
Added option to select Trade Wares directly in Logical Station Overview
Added Start Guidance option to Interact menu of data vaults.
Added Fly To option to Interact menu of deployables and drops.
Added details about mission duration and involved ships to Venture Results menu.
Added match speed indicator to crosshair (default hotkey Shift+X).
Added mouse over info in Object Info menus showing full commander name if name is truncated.
Added error message when attempting to trade with stations that do not have docking facilities for current ship.
Removed use of cargo drones for direct trade between nearby stations.
Removed ability to install unsuitable equipment mods for certain types of shields, weapons, turrets and ships.
Removed Explore order from list of available behaviours (Explore still available as general order).
Removed irrelevant information for unmanned vessels from Object Info menus.
Removed Opposing Faction line in mission briefings if it is empty.
Removed duplicate inventory and station account management from Empire Overview.
Removed ships and stations lists from Empire Overview.
Removed hull and shield bars from wreck icons on map.
Changed Explore order to end when all map hexes in its search radius have been discovered.
Changed location of mission offer map filter to Think section.
Improved names of Xenon weapons.
Improved target selection for pirates.
Improved turret accuracy against large targets.
Improved weapon and turret accuracy against fast targets.
Improved chance of AI pilots opening lockboxes when player not nearby.
Improved efficiency of subordinate traders looking for trades.
Improved behaviour of combat ships attempting to disable capital ship.
Improved trade assignment speed if many subordinates try to trade same ware for their commander.
Improved guidance during Paranid plot maze section.
Improved "Work somewhere else for me" conversation to open map at employee's location instead of player's.
Improved turret behaviour settings in station Loadout menus when all turrets are under construction.
Improved visibility of target speed indicator in speed-bar against bright background elements.
Improved order and designation for equipment slots in Ship and Station Build menus
Improved presentation of player-owned ships on ventures in Property Owned menu.
Improved balancing of Patrol missions by increasing enemy presence.
Improved map performance in certain situations.
Fixed Split wharves missing Pier.
Fixed Fallen Families faction not building new ships.
Fixed Duke's Haven sometimes not selling any, or only random, equipment/ships.
Fixed Free Families granting police licences; players who have already purchased this licence will be reimbursed.
Fixed stations built for NPC factions sometimes still using player account.
Fixed stations not posting public buy offers for supply resources.
Fixed stations operating as pure trade stations only using fraction of their funds for buying wares.
Fixed stations sometimes creating trade offers with zero amounts for wares that are required for production.
Fixed another case of Teladi Trade Stations not rebuilding modules.
Fixed NPC stations disabling some of their production modules indefinitely under rare circumstances.
Fixed crews of mining ships not gaining experience when player not nearby during mining operations.
Fixed ships refusing explicitly given orders to trade with a station that is blacklisted.
Fixed Recall Subordinates command not disarming drones.
Fixed pirate ships not attacking NPC-owned ships that refuse to drop their cargo or comply with inspection protocols.
Fixed ships assigned to Trade for Build Storage using station manager account instead of construction account.
Fixed construction plan Shuffle option using connection modules that are not available.
Fixed accidental friendly fire from turrets on player ship being treated as intentional.
Fixed distress drones being launched prematurely.
Fixed ships not doing damage when player not nearby if they were originally built with neither weapons nor turrets.
Fixed player-owned capital ships not doing damage to non-hostile targets designated explicitly by player.
Fixed ships sometimes repeatedly getting supplies at fleet auxiliary ships.
Fixed NPC-owned ships paying for ammunition, deployables and drones that they already have when resupplying at player-owned equipment docks.
Fixed some cases of ships not flying correctly around capital ships, specially when docking.
Fixed ships not able to catch and dock on moving Raptor.
Fixed station-based traders buying resources that their station isn't currently buying.
Fixed Update Trade Offers command not visiting all known stations when multiple such orders are queued.
Fixed Update Trade Offers ending immediately when new order is queued.
Fixed queued-up Explore orders completing without having explored.
Fixed Construction Vessels not clearing previous orders when assigned for building.
Fixed Construction Vessels disengaging while modules are recycling before new build starts.
Fixed non-capital ships refusing to attack military capital ships and some stations at relations between -20 and -25.
Fixed automated trading ships ignoring travel blacklists when executing trades.
Fixed subordinate traders not respecting trade rule that is denying specific factions.
Fixed subordinate traders loading extra wares from their home base into storage even under conditions where they shouldn't.
Fixed direct subordinates of player with assignment Attack not attacking unless themselves attacked.
Fixed subordinates sometimes detaching themselves from their fleet.
Fixed missing Trader assignment for trade ships that are subordinate to resupply ship.
Fixed build orders on player-piloted ship not processing on docking at shipyard under some circumstances.
Fixed free-flying police and recon ships sometimes getting stuck while scanning something.
Fixed comm response by police when non-player ships are scanned and no illegal wares are found.
Fixed asteroids accumulating when repeatedly saving and loading in same location.
Fixed relative movement stopping when getting up from pilot seat.
Fixed speed matching not turning off when changing target.
Fixed aiming reaction time not using skills of pilot or manager.
Fixed turrets sometimes not firing on valid targets.
Fixed weapons firing into empty space if target is large object.
Fixed turrets on ships repeatedly deploying and folding back when valid targets are in sight but not in range.
Fixed autopilot aborting travel mode either too late or much too early.
Fixed crew transfer resulting in unending escape pods in very rare circumstances.
Fixed one case of crew transfer failing.
Fixed one cause of traffic jams at gates.
Fixed missing faction representatives in rare cases.
Fixed pilots and crews on venturing ships losing morale due to inactivity.
Fixed distance calculations for teleportation range limits.
Fixed exploit allowing unlimited small ships to be stored.
Fixed exploit allowing crew members to be cloned in certain situations.
Fixed exploit allowing additional equipment that is not available at ship's current shipyard/wharf/equipment dock to be installed.
Fixed being able to teleport to docked ships sent on venture.
Fixed returned venture ships stranded in void after rebuilding venture dock.
Fixed incorrect unpaid plot licences under certain circumstances.
Fixed losing faction reputation from illegal station plots although licence was paid.
Fixed not being able to autopilot to targets that are under construction.
Fixed not being able to request docking at build storage when piloting capital ship.
Fixed rare case of weapons firing under player control when player is no longer controlling ship.
Fixed ship capacity mods not being taken into account when adding missiles, countermeasures and deployables to ships.
Fixed deployables deployed via command Deploy at Position sometimes drifting past designated position.
Fixed incorrect resource amounts for Paranid and Teladi M Mk2 shields.
Fixed sector sunlight property not affecting Energy Cell production as intended.
Fixed missing dock functionality on 4th arm of Split 4-Dock T Pier.
Fixed missing XS ship docks on 3M6S luxury Dock Area.
Fixed several hints getting stuck during Flight School tutorial.
Fixed some missions not correctly displaying opposing faction in briefing.
Fixed missing Court faction representative.
Fixed Paranid plot mission A Small Errand getting stuck on objective Await: Further Instructions under specific circumstances.
Fixed conversation option to pay credits in Paranid plot missions Unfolded Potential and An Ethical Challenge only appearing once.
Fixed getaway ship not being recalled from internal storage if it was stored away during Split storyline at Hall of Judgement.
Fixed missing prisoners at Hall of Judgement in Split story.
Fixed plot not proceeding during cutscene to sabotage Scale Plate trade run.
Fixed ships encountered in war subscription missions sometimes being invisible.
Fixed Hatikvah story not always being re-offered when initial station was destroyed.
Fixed Split story getting stuck in Suspicious Split mission if Passenger Ship was lost.
Fixed mission conversation option for passenger to return to Passenger Ship in Suspicious Split Mission.
Fixed End of Oppression/End of Terrorism missions getting stuck at payment stage if ship NPC contact was on was destroyed.
Fixed game freeze during Suspicious Split mission if no stations belonging to given faction can be found.
Fixed Split story getting stuck when tasked to place bombs on cargo drones during Report To Slave Trader 2 mission.
Fixed Split Suspicious mission in Split story potentially missing guidance to character.
Fixed End of Oppression mission in Split story accepting multiple payments from player and not progressing.
Fixed End of Terrorism mission in Split story getting stuck if story character was on ship that was later destroyed.
Fixed Path of Vengeance mission not completing in certain cases.
Fixed discovering Jump Gate to Split space sometimes not triggering event cutscene.
Fixed Split prisoner characters being duplicated when reassigned, which could lead to issues controlling objects.
Fixed Paranid plot mission A Small Errand getting stuck if lockboxes are opened or destroyed before player enters sector.
Fixed HQ Research Module not being named correctly in certain gamestarts.
Fixed HQ Research Module being removed when loading construction plan.
Fixed fleets not being sorted by fleet name in Object List and Property Owned menus.
Fixed trade wares missing in Logical Station Overview if not currently stored.
Fixed turret groups not being highlighted on ship in Ship Configuration menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed inconsistent selection and highlight of shield and turret groups in Ship Modification menu.
Fixed equipment mod category availability if no equipment is installed.
Fixed rounding issues for equipment mod effects.
Fixed station hull percentage not being shown in Info menu unless scan level was at least 80%.
Fixed ship docks being listed as station dock modules in Encyclopedia.
Fixed missing "+" on buttons in Ship Configuration and Player Information menus.
Fixed Trade menu not being visible in certain situations.
Fixed sector map sometimes being broken by deployables ending up in invalid positions.
Fixed Arm/Disarm Turrets option in Interact menu being inconsistent when multiple ships are selected.
Fixed some map controls not working after quick-loading with map open.
Fixed Property Owned jumping to top row after returning from Object Information tab.
Fixed missing pre-selection of certain equipment entries in Encyclopedia when opened from Ship Configuration menu.
Fixed turret slots not available in Ship Configuration menu for certain ships when using controller.
Fixed missing trade offer updates after changing station accounts, especially when paused.
Fixed shuffle function in Station Build menu not updating list of modules.
Fixed construction resources not being listed immediately after acquiring blueprint for player-owned shipyards.
Fixed production/hour value for production modules not taking into account effect of production efficiency in Logical Station Overview.
Fixed missing workforce information in Logical Station Overview under certain circumstances.
Fixed incorrect trade rule or blacklist display/usage when assigned trade rule or blacklist is deleted.
Fixed incorrect order lines on map when blacklists are set up.
Fixed target monitor sometimes getting stuck during comms.
Fixed fog of war sometimes not being rendered up to edge of sector.
Fixed another case of stuck map panning in certain situations.
Fixed object selection in map not changing object in Info menu if Info menu is not displayed.
Fixed ware transfer options in Interact menu not requiring pilots.
Fixed incorrect shadows for objects during construction.
Fixed returning venture ships causing performance issues until sent away again.
Fixed issue causing savegames to become larger with every save/load cycle.
Fixed excessive sound volume in logo video.
Fixed issue where sounds could be missing or delayed.
Fixed further startup issues on Linux.
Fixed game generating two crash dumps per crash instead of one.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature: Improved personnel management and crew transfer system.
Added new upkeep missions.
Added Hold Position override order as reaction to attack, to prevent ships from leaving area.
Added option to put docked ships into internal storage.
Added ability to enter space suit from docked capital ships.
Added ability to define multiple sectors for player alerts.
Added ticker notification for player-owned ships and stations coming under attack.
Added logbook entry for player-owned stations being attacked.
Added notification and logbook entry for player-owned stations getting destroyed.
Added option to fire unassigned crew members in Crew Info menu.
Added option to pause production in Logical Station Overview.
Added information about station supply resources to Logical Station Overview.
Added captions to columns in Logical Station Overview.
Added ship type icons to blueprint trade and Fast Travel menus.
Added ship code to ship entry in shopping list section of Ship Configuration menu.
Added map filter options for enemy offers and gate connections.
Added map background opacity option.
Added new input bindings for diagonal steering and strafing.
Added new input bindings for toggling auto-roll and aim assist options.
Added option to select GPU in-game (requires restart).
Removed ability of Cerberus to be equipped with mining lasers.
Removed redundant Manage funds Interact menu option (use Information option instead).
Removed non-functional options to change equipment while modifying/redesigning ships.
Improved docking process to allow S and M sized ships to be docked in reverse direction.
Improved Defence subordinate behaviour by reducing engagement range to 20km.
Improved resource handling to move surplus resources for Drones and Ammo to cargo bay if station has use for them.
Improved balancing of seminars (increased effectiveness, increased price, reduced quantity available).
Improved subordinate traders by changing priority to favour demand over distance.
Improved AutoMiners to make use of their factions' resource probes.
Improved selection of sectors for order parameters in Behaviour menu.
Improved wording of ship role assignments in Interact menu.
Improved container magnet to also attract deactivated player-owned deployables.
Improved cargo space allocation for workforce resources.
Improved trade rule settings to keep current trade rule in effect when disabling Use Global/Station setting.
Improved performance of Distribute Wares order in cases where blacklists result in it having significantly smaller operating range.
Improved performance of mission guidance rendering on map.
Fixed certain plot stations being recycled due to economic issues.
Fixed Paranid plot mission A Small Errand getting stuck at objective Follow: Dead Drop Signal under specific late game circumstances.
Fixed guidance wrongly jumping back from docking to scanning when creating new Signal Leaks on coffin ship in Split story mission To the Other Side.
Fixed relation to Duke's Buccaneers getting locked again after having been unlocked in The Insurgence mission.
Fixed not being able to talk to Split prisoners after they are assigned to you.
Fixed blueprints being obtainable from data leaks on ships.
Fixed rebuilt build modules remaining in an inoperable state if they were wrecked before existing hack expired.
Fixed ships having lingering links to inoperable build modules resulting in them not being able to upgrade elsewhere.
Fixed ships executing order Distribute Wares sometimes finding trades in blacklisted sectors.
Fixed ships belonging to Godrealm of the Paranid in Split space persisting when they shouldn't.
Fixed AI-controlled ships sometimes jumping ahead on path after going through accelerator or gate.
Fixed certain ships not being able to dock manually without docking computer.
Fixed mass traffic ships not flying correctly when returning to dock.
Fixed ships getting very large number of Attack orders if they have Attack assignment and their commander engages many targets.
Fixed promoted subordinates sometimes inheriting an assignment that they cannot fulfil.
Fixed newly promoted subordinates inheriting their former commander's assignment but not updating their behaviour.
Fixed boarding ships sometimes not launching pods.
Fixed turrets in Attack my current target mode sometimes not shooting when targeting station.
Fixed turrets on certain stations consistently missing capital ships.
Fixed weapon aiming problems when shooter rotates or moves laterally to target.
Fixed transport or build drones remaining unavailable under certain conditions.
Fixed venture ship being lost due to destroyed/moved venture docks when free venture dock is available.
Fixed defence modules not getting turrets on some stations where they should.
Fixed Split storage modules missing shields and turrets.
Fixed stuck trades between stations and build storage.
Fixed ships getting stuck in docking bay.
Fixed wrecks triggering player alerts.
Fixed getting notifications and logbook entries for player-owned drones and laser towers getting destroyed.
Fixed laser towers stuck in highways.
Fixed asteroids accumulating when repeatedly saving and loading in same location (corrects previous fix).
Fixed ships armed only with missile launchers sometimes not firing when attacking capital ships or stations.
Fixed ships incorrectly staying assigned to docks, blocking them forever.
Fixed pilots unable to control their ship after being promoted in certain cases.
Fixed player looking at floor when speaking to crewman in back of current ship.
Fixed inability to use spacesuit hatch after crew transfer pod arrived.
Fixed exploit when selling crew at shipyard.
Fixed crew not leaving the bridge after being sold at shipyard.
Fixed player being charged when shipyard was unable to provide agreed crew.
Fixed miners staying in completely depleted area when other areas with resources are available.
Fixed police and reconnaissance ships investigating areas that once contained stations long after they have been destroyed.
Fixed turrets not firing on stations under construction close to player.
Fixed crew moving around on bridges more often than intended.
Fixed pilots unable to control their ship after being promoted in certain cases.
Fixed player getting notifications for player-owned XS ships getting destroyed.
Fixed docking guidance lights leading to incorrect position when piloting capital ship.
Fixed higher trade ranks and associated achievements being somewhat too difficult to achieve.
Fixed higher fight ranks and associated achievements being much too difficult to achieve.
Fixed fight rank not increasing when player destroys station modules.
Fixed transporter doors on M ships not closing when NPCs use them.
Fixed exploit allowing crew members to be cloned in certain situations.
Fixed exploit involving selling ship equipment by transferring credits when build process is complete.
Fixed exploit allowing licence and blueprint purchases to be made with insufficient funds.
Fixed incorrectly scaled satellite ranges on map.
Fixed discrepancies in information presented by boarding menu during operations.
Fixed loadout statistics not taking equipment mods on grouped turrets into account.
Fixed empty Import Construction Plans context menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed Ship Configuration menu not working when accessed at resupply ship under certain circumstances.
Fixed station storage display in Info menu if station storage is empty.
Fixed all module categories being collapsed when editing module loadout in Station Build menu.
Fixed Behaviour and Individual Instruction menus jumping to top row after scrolling on right side.
Fixed sliders for order parameters in Behaviour menu not working correctly with mouse.
Fixed overlapping texts for station accounts in Object Info menu.
Fixed Loadout Info tab with high UI scale settings.
Fixed missing guidance to target station in Split story End of Terrorism mission.
Fixed missing Dal lines in Split story End of Oppression/Terrorism missions.
Fixed incorrect mission guidance when objective is to dock at ship that is itself docked.
Fixed cases of missing guidance to mission targets in space after taking control of ship.
Fixed inventory trader not showing new stock levels if initial value was zero.
Fixed dock request not aborting previous assignment when done from menu.
Fixed role selection in Crew Info menu not working.
Fixed Ship Overview menu for ships in construction.
Fixed crew info context menu referring to manager when interacting with ship trader.
Fixed subordinate and docked ship categories ignoring Object List and Property Owned sort settings.
Fixed undo step not being added when adding new modules in station editor.
Fixed button hints not being displayed for buttons on secondary controller or joystick.
Fixed Crew and Loadout Info menus getting stuck when selecting a station in construction.
Fixed setting buy/sell amount handling of trade ware back to automatic also turning off offers.
Fixed renamed sectors showing their original name in Blacklist settings.
Fixed Object Info not available for stations in construction.
Fixed ship crew tab not updating when hiring bulk crew.
Fixed Show Tooltips option having no effect until new session is started.
Fixed selecting hologram on Split capital ship bridge resulting in player taking control of ship.
Fixed multiple minor glitches related to mouse click handling, e.g. clicks on NPCs sometimes immediately selecting dialog menu option.
Fixed visual hole in bridge on large Argon ships.
Fixed positional lights on Argon defence tube appearing in wrong position in upgrade menu.
Fixed small Mass Driver Mk1 and Mk2 appearing visually disconnected in upgrade menu.
Fixed Split defence module details being disconnected in upgrade menu.
Fixed floating and intersecting turrets on Teladi defence platform.
Fixed slightly offset guns on Tuatara.
Fixed gun on Jaguar not being properly visually attached to ship hull.
Fixed shields on Wyvern not protecting surface elements.
Fixed misplaced rear turrets and shield generator on Rattlesnake.
Fixed wrongly rotated shield generator on Raptor.
Fixed player logos on Raptor not being properly visible.
Fixed Boso Ta head rotation.
Fixed cause of graphical corruption on very busy zoomed-out map.
Fixed UI animations sometimes appearing to be running at very low FPS.
Fixed poor performance with loadout display in certain situations.
Fixed excessive stuttering of engine sound especially on ships flying in formations.
Fixed ships stopping as if hitting something very massive when colliding with XS laser towers.
Fixed getting stuck in transporter room on Jaguar.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed faction representatives still being missing under certain circumstances.
Fixed necessary briefing information being missing for certain missions in French and German localisations.
Fixed missing guidance to passenger in Split story mission.
Fixed success criteria in Sabotage mission.
Fixed display corruption on 5600 XT graphics card with Glow enabled.
Fixed several causes of game freezes and UI crashes.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed autosaves not cycling slots in Linux version.
Fixed game not starting with certain hardware, OS and driver configurations.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature: Terraforming!
New Feature: Coordinated Attack option for fleet commanders.
New Feature: Volumetric fog makes space look even better.
New Feature: Transaction Log for detailed breakdown of income and outgoings.
New Feature: Message system for important communications from NPCs.
New Feature: New Hostile relation status on map and HUD to indicate objects with which combat is likely.
New Feature: Emergency eject.
Added area damage to capital ship engines exhaust.
Added possibility for crew to bail when under attack by NPCs.
Added possibility for NPC factions to claim abandoned ships.
Added available habitation capacity for race as workforce growth rate influence.
Added Mark as Hostile option to Interact menu.
Added Fire Authorisation Overrides providing control over whether ships should attack other factions.
Added option to declare war on another faction.
Added ability for player to set global policy and per-ship overrides governing response to attack.
Added player faction to blacklist options.
Added options to use faction and sector lists in Blacklists as whitelists.
Added Assist assignment for subordinates of ships.
Added Follow assignment for ships subordinate to other ships.
Added trade assignments for mining ships.
Added sync point management to Object Behaviour menu.
Added option to have player-owned police collect or ignore crates dropped by apprehended smugglers rather than destroying them.
Added option to lock paint modifications per ship excluding them from changes to default.
Added setting for default ship weapon and turret behaviour.
Added option to set preferred build method.
Added construction plan shuffle option to player HQ.
Added option to quickly reassemble equipment mods.
Added ability to store crew information alongside saved loadouts (only applied when building new ships).
Added ability to store weapon mode and ammo settings with saved loadouts and apply them in ship build/upgrade process.
Added option to temporarily disable cover faction mode in Map.
Added Set Guidance option on superhighway gates.
Added Interact Menu option to Claim abandoned ships with player-owned ships.
Added Interact menu option to add ships directly to your squad.
Added change override order option to Interact menu.
Added option to Interact menu to remove current Dock and Wait order and resume default behaviour.
Added Interact menu option for sectors to show Encyclopedia entry.
Added Rename Interact menu option for player-owned sectors.
Added Escort missions.
Added mission offers for factions which are at enemy relations to player but not actively hostile.
Added helpful ship computer warnings to Paranid story maze mission.
Added ability for Duke's Buccaneers and Duke's Tempest to rebuild HQ.
Added guaranteed completion rewards for all guild mission chains.
Added mixed cash and non-cash rewards to generic missions at higher faction ranks.
Added paint mod rewards to first Split plot investment mission.
Added paint mod rewards to Paranid plot and subsequent diplomatic investment missions.
Added fleet and assignment info next to ship icon on Map.
Added possibility to restore minimized Map with Quick Action Menu shortcut.
Added search functionality to Encyclopedia.
Added race information to Encyclopedia.
Added contested sector information to Object Info menu and Encyclopedia.
Added descriptions for licences and blueprints in faction representative menus.
Added information about sectors and blacklists to Trade menu.
Added shield recharge delay info to Encyclopedia.
Added separate entries for large and medium turrets in Encyclopedia.
Added sunlight information to sector Encyclopedia entries and Plot Management menu.
Added estimated build time to station module information in Encyclopedia.
Added mining resource information to Sector Info menu and Encyclopedia entries.
Added separate choices for best engine and thruster for velocity-related properties in Encyclopedia.
Added optimal workforce info to production modules in Encyclopedia and Station Build menu.
Added product cycle time to production module Encyclopedia entries.
Added research and associated resources to Logical Station Overview.
Added information about workforce efficiency and changes to Logical Station Overview menu.
Added sunlight information to Energy Cell production nodes in Logical Station Overview.
Added shortcut to Research menu from HQ-related menus, e.g. Logical Station Overview.
Added information about hacked build modules to Logical Station Overview and Ship Configuration menu.
Added shortcuts from Logical Station Overview to create and edit trade rules.
Added mouseover text for storage amounts in Logical Station Overview.
Added Accessibility Settings in Options Menu.
Added sub-categories to Blueprint Trade menu.
Added option to sort Object List by relation.
Added Logbook tab to Object Information menu.
Added shortcuts in Object Information menu to show commander or subordinates of ships and stations on Map
Added information about equipment compatibility to Ship and Station Configuration menus.
Added search by maker race in module and equipment lists of Ship and Station Configuration menus.
Added strafe and shield recharge data to Ship Configuration and Comparison menus.
Added check for whether Builder is required in Station Build menu.
Added summary of workforce info to Habitation Modules section in Station Build menu.
Added plot licence price display while placing new station plot.
Added separate inventory category for paint modifications.
Added confirmation request when clearing logbook entries.
Added mouseover text showing details for station account estimates in Info menu.
Added tooltip for amount of reserved wares in ware exchange menu.
Added placeholder image when no video is available in personnel overview.
Added option to play message videos full-screen.
Added links to Encyclopedia for important items in mission objectives.
Added object ID code to upkeep mission list.
Added additional support to navigate complex menus (e.g. map) with controller or keyboard.
Added horizontal scrolling in flowcharts (Shift+Mouse Wheel).
Added message when quick-save fails due to saving not being possible.
Added optional warning about modified game client.
Added visualisation for nearby Data or Signal Leaks, and for Long Range Scan charge state.
Added audio and visual feedback when entering damaging area.
Added shield impact effects.
Improved combat simulation when player is not present.
Improved Kha'ak presence and behaviour.
Improved armament of Xenon stations.
Improved laser tower targeting.
Improved behaviour of pirates hacking station storage.
Improved behaviour of subordinates in fleets with fleet auxiliary ships to prefer those ships for resupply.
Improved capital ship subordinate behaviour to ignore subordinate group docked/launched state.
Improved disengaging from combat in response to relations with target improving to non-hostile level.
Improved mineral mining with non-capital ships when player is present.
Improved mining AI to better balance travel distance and resource yields between local and remote sectors.
Improved mining ship detection and handling of extensive mining operations depleting local areas completely.
Improved behaviour of mining ships when using resource probes.
Improved station-based miners working for stations that require more than one mineable ware.
Improved player-owned drone behaviour so that inventory items are transferred directly to player when docking at player ship.
Improved handling of ships sold by player to ensure their new owner recovers resources.
Improved trade offer prioritisation when station does not have sufficient funds to pay for everything it needs.
Improved shipyard generation to provide more dock capacity for medium ships (new game only).
Improved behaviour of recon and police ships to reduce chances of investigating incidents away from densely-inhabited portions of sectors.
Improved relative resource distribution for ship-building stations.
Improved collision detection while in spacesuit.
Improved capital ship inter-sector movement.
Improved cases where ships preferred highways too much over direct route.
Improved capital ship combat movement.
Improved flight movement for ships docking on capital ships.
Improved balancing of mining activities.
Improved build plot price balancing by taking into account sector population.
Improved balancing of relation penalty on destruction of drones and laser towers.
Improved workforce balancing by increasing both impact of local population and effect on production.
Improved workforce balancing by increasing both food requirements and efficiency bonus.
Improved numbers of NPCs on docks to better reflect workforce levels and generally make things livelier.
Improved effect of crew skill and resource probe usage on mining efficiency.
Improved output of stations producing workforce resources to counter universal food shortage.
Improved balancing of mining resource yields and replenishment rates.
Improved timing of Fallen Families raider activation.
Improved balancing of Unfolded Potential and An Ethical Challenge missions by reducing requirements for crystals and sedatives.
Improved balancing of The Mediators, The Insurgence, Fires of Fate and Declaration of Curbs missions by reducing fleet delivery requirements and power of enemy fleets.
Improved clarity of conversation tooltip about requirements to start Paranid plot.
Improved Hatikvah story mission to scan data leak at Scale Plate station.
Improved diversity of paint mod rewards between guild subscriptions.
Improved reputation rewards for Escalation path of Paranid story diplomatic missions.
Improved survivability of Duke's Haven by preventing Godrealm and Holy Order from invading until Gathering Storm mission is complete.
Improved pacing of Lasting Vengeance mission by automatically removing Nav Beacons after scan.
Improved Deploy Resource Probe upkeep mission handling.
Improved communications scenes for NPCs by adding their real environment.
Improved design of New Game menu.
improved Extensions menu with more details and added toggle in extension list.
Improved Options menu display when changing subscription status of workshop extensions in Steam while game is running.
Improved Account Management menu.
Improved order of ship entries in Blueprint Trade menu.
Improved display of mission trade offers in trade context menu
Improved news notifications about faction activity to filter by local area unless war subscriptions are in place.
Improved lists in menus of queued ships under construction to be more concise.
Improved scrolling of multi-line texts in menus with controller and keyboard.
Improved display of production cycle information in Encyclopedia ware entries.
Improved warnings about missing storage space in Logical Station Overview.
Improved tooltip when trying to reassign for busy ship traders.
Improved layout of resource needs in Station Build menu.
Improved smoothness when panning, rotating or scrolling busy Map displays.
Improved station editor to allow more zoom-in.
Improved Mission Offer and Manager menus to only show alternative guidance if mission briefing is visible.
Improved mission icons.
Improved character lighting in communications scenes.
Improved external camera behaviour when target is destroyed.
Improved appearance of asteroid fields by fading in objects.
Improved volume and variety of Trader's Corner music.
Changed L gas miners to require mining drones for effective mining.
Changed guidance and autopilot to no longer use unknown gates or superhighways.
Changed order of tabs in Player Information menu.
Removed option to drop cargo from units
Removed incorrect interact menu options for drones.
Removed laser towers from ship categories in Encyclopedia.
Removed Think map filter category and moved those entries to Other category.
Fixed ships warping when exiting local highway while player is inside same highway.
Fixed S/M ships not able to approach and dock properly on enclosed docking bays.
Fixed ships sometimes not being able to dock on capital ships.
Fixed ships holding up docks for long periods of time.
Fixed AI orders and player teleport sometimes not considering sector to be in range.
Fixed AI ships sometimes taking longer route than they should.
Fixed Attack subordinates sometimes not attacking their commander's target.
Fixed attacking combat ships halting or fleeing in response to police ordering them to halt.
Fixed boarding ships launching extra empty boarding pods if they are already ready to launch at start of operation.
Fixed skilled marines causing more damage when claiming than marines with less skill.
Fixed changes to defence drone modes not registering when defence drones are disarmed.
Fixed claiming of abandoned ships with marines.
Fixed efficiency bonus from workforce not being applied if productions were not running during shift change.
Fixed idling ships sometimes wandering off.
Fixed ships retrieved from storage sometimes being rotated by 180 degrees.
Fixed miners subordinate to stations in hostile sectors refusing to work in their commanders' sectors.
Fixed subordinates set to supply fleet not getting appropriate assignment if set via order queue menu.
Fixed turrets on ship that player is personally flying firing on wrecks.
Fixed ware transfer sometimes stalling when involving one ship docked at another.
Fixed weapons sometimes recovering from overheating too late.
Fixed cases of many NPC subordinate ships being ordered at shipyards but never assigned to commander.
Fixed ship traders getting stuck indefinitely attempting to build costly ships.
Fixed software upgrades on resupply ships not starting.
Fixed subordinates with assignment Mimic Behaviour assigned to free traders not trading even if requirements have been fulfilled.
Fixed turrets sometimes aiming at empty space when attacking large target.
Fixed Teladi Trading Stations not being equipped with shields or turrets.
Fixed trade loops failing to trade with station build storage.
Fixed ships with destroyed engines continuing to move.
Fixed inability to scan ships multiple times.
Fixed another case of subordinates attacking ships beyond pursuit range.
Fixed customs searches on player-owned stations in player-owned sectors ordering player-owned ships to drop illegal wares.
Fixed police ships sometimes policing sectors where they are not police.
Fixed changing ship assignments not changing their default behaviour appropriately.
Fixed ongoing research still allocating space for resources.
Fixed aim prediction for weapons on rotating objects.
Fixed turret aiming against large targets.
Fixed autopilot sometimes flying back into jumpgate it just exited.
Fixed defence drones escorting ship not responding to attacks on their fleets.
Fixed subordinates temporarily taken control over by player sometimes failing to reintegrate into their old command hierarchy.
Fixed player-owned stations repeatedly transferring small amounts to player's account if last player-initiated cash transfer was much less than required operating budget.
Fixed traders refusing to trade with blacklisted objects after having been given explicit trade order.
Fixed automated traders trading with clients after they have moved to blacklisted sector.
Fixed station-based traders restricting baskets to shortage wares that they are not authorised to trade.
Fixed construction vessels remaining in unsafe locations when expanding station plots.
Fixed construction vessels not disengaging when becoming enemy with assigned station.
Fixed stations continuing to fire on targets that change ownership to non-hostile faction.
Fixed ongoing research still allocating space for resources.
Fixed NPC getting stuck in tool pickup loop.
Fixed objects with hull values over 100%.
Fixed subordinates sometimes randomly going hostile against their commanders' former targets.
Fixed incorrect auto-aim when rolling while pitched up or down.
Fixed missing scanner on Split space suits.
Fixed Split L Dumbfire Turrets not firing.
Fixed player ship becoming uncontrollable when pressing undock key (Shift+D) while already undocking.
Fixed attacking ships that are not authorised to engage other targets engaging them anyway.
Fixed half of ships in local highway being killed when player leaves.
Fixed launched defence drones pursuing targets beyond engagement range.
Fixed subordinates whose commanders are in blacklisted sectors not operating in their commanders' sectors.
Fixed stations not accounting for defence drones when dealing damage while player is not present.
Fixed stations with missile turrets on automatic supply not requesting missile resources.
Fixed player-owned auto-miners and auto-traders finding sectors that are not yet known to player.
Fixed additional gas mining drones on large gas miners not contributing to mining speed.
Fixed trade offers being sometimes shown as hostile when standing on another faction's property.
Fixed trade subscription not being offered when teleporting to station where you receive promotion.
Fixed station producing required building materials not being able to transfer them to build storage if it has insufficient funds.
Fixed stations automatically reassigning mining ships to mine for them.
Fixed assigning employee as Individual Trainee not working.
Fixed being able to walk through walls by moving very slowly.
Fixed heat build-up of beam weapons.
Fixed subordinates sometimes not clearing reservations on reassignment.
Fixed mining lasers dealing excessive damage against enemies when player not present.
Fixed ships without weapons or turrets being able to mine asteroids.
Fixed ships not consuming countermeasures when player not present.
Fixed stations not using their turrets under certain circumstances.
Fixed remotely viewed objects not shooting under certain circumstances.
Fixed excessive workforce reduction when insufficient resources are available.
Fixed player ship getting pushed when getting up while flying relative to moving object.
Fixed player spacesuit getting pushed when moving away from player ship while flying relative to moving object.
Fixed savegames where large number of factories have been built by factions for no reason.
Fixed ships with automated default behaviours sometimes ignoring certain sectors.
Fixed NPCs appearing on player owned stations generally being all of one race.
Fixed fleet commanders using their piloting skill rather than their combined skill for determining validity of formation shapes.
Fixed subordinates assigned to commanders that have bailed becoming completely unresponsive.
Fixed range calculation issues with capital ships attacking stations.
Fixed ships sent to be recycled sometimes blocking dock.
Fixed possibility to queue multiple repair orders for same ship.
Fixed not being able to personally claim ownerless capital ships.
Fixed lockboxes accumulating when saving and loading repeatedly.
Fixed HQ Research Module sometimes being incorrectly named.
Fixed non-capital mineral mining ships with mining turrets but no forward-mounted mining lasers failing to mine when player not present.
Fixed manually setting storage allocation for products/intermediates removing automatic sell offers.
Fixed Kha'ak rebuilding station modules excessively quickly.
Fixed fleet auxiliary ships becoming unresponsive when two of them are added to fleet while distant from one another.
Fixed saves with missing HQ science labs after building from plan (root cause may not be fixed).
Fixed mission trade offers not being shown if player has no trade offer subscription at relevant station.
Fixed weapon aim indicators not darkening under certain conditions when target is out of range.
Fixed newly installed weapon not being displayed in weapon panel when upgrading currently controlled ship.
Fixed broken weapon panel when removing weapon from currently controlled ship.
Fixed icons on Map shaking because of unintentional damage.
Fixed station geometry on Map still including certain ships even after they have undocked.
Fixed some system borders appearing too bright on Map.
Fixed incorrect error message about missing trade information in Trade menu.
Fixed ETAs for ware reservations by player ships.
Fixed subordinates with assignment Attack failing to attack fleet target if assigned to fleet in different sector that is already attacking.
Fixed traders subordinate to fleet auxiliary ships searching for trades from their current sector rather than that of their commander.
Fixed mining ships with low-skilled crews picking up empty asteroid chunks.
Fixed player ship warping when flying relative to object with dock permission as it enters gate.
Fixed drones or ammunition sometimes not being constructed from available cargo while there are trade deals to buy at least one relevant ware.
Fixed Black Marketeers sometimes not having correct race for their faction.
Fixed faction representatives not being respawned after loading certain older savegames.
Fixed race distribution of characters on stations.
Fixed crew on ships sometimes not properly switching to new owner.
Fixed NPC pilots sometimes sitting on player's lap.
Fixed missing trade corners on trading stations which also have faction representative.
Fixed NPCs looking up or down when talking to player.
Fixed characters sometimes standing inside their terminals.
Fixed Split character sometimes being placed in cockpit floor in Fires of Defeat gamestart.
Fixed HQ manager in Accomplished Scientist gamestart sometimes being invisible Kha'ak or Xenon character.
Fixed incorrect hints in Flight School when playing with configuration of multiple joysticks or controllers.
Fixed success criteria in sabotage mission.
Fixed already opened core-shield switching to closed when loading savegame in Paranid storyline.
Fixed game freezing if fulfilling mission by delivering fleet that is directly subordinate to player.
Fixed missing guidance to mission character in End of Terrorism/Oppression missions under certain circumstances.
Fixed NPC ships avoiding player during payment objective of End of Oppression/Terrorism Split story mission.
Fixed multiple crew delivery missions reacting to delivering NPC.
Fixed Split Vs Argon mission referencing Paranid ship types.
Fixed player becoming member of receiving faction when handing over ship while in pilot seat.
Fixed Deliver Crew mission checking incorrect skills and sometimes leading to mission not completing.
Fixed Yu t'Knk in Split storyline providing unlimited number of spacesuit bombs.
Fixed Split Story mission Zyarth's Coffin getting stuck after completing delivery.
Fixed issue with Split-specific Fleet War Mission requesting non-existent ship equipment.
Fixed Kha'ak stations offering signal leak missions.
Fixed Escape Plan mission sometimes stalling if left for too long.
Fixed escape pods not launching in Hatikvah Breakdown mission.
Fixed Split plot not progressing when Passenger gets lost during Rebellious Thralls mission.
Fixed missing guidance to NPC during Suspicious Split mission in Split story.
Fixed HQ story signal leak not appearing during specific phase of Hatikvah story.
Fixed attacking drones in Hatikvah story not turning hostile to player as intended.
Fixed multiple repair satellite missions in trade subscription not progressing.
Fixed By Invitation Only mission to speak to Dal Busta sometimes not having guidance.
Fixed upkeep mission to assign construction vessel not appearing for newly planned stations.
Fixed mission NPC not respawning in Split End of Terrorism and End of Oppression story missions.
Fixed another case of Escape Plan mission sometimes stalling.
Fixed A Small Errand mission getting stuck if all lockboxes are opened in quick succession.
Fixed Rebellious Thralls mission in Split story getting stuck after hijacked ship surrendered.
Fixed crew delivery missions not aborting automatically if destination station is destroyed
Fixed Duke's Tempest not attempting to claim sectors during invasions.
Fixed Retrieve Inventory mission potentially aborting when mission item is picked up.
Fixed Supreme Interior Design and A Fearsome Flagship missions sometimes getting stuck despite all wares having been delivered.
Fixed Abort Mission button wrongly appearing enabled under certain circumstances.
Fixed Ships in Construction entries showing 1:00 as time left when completed.
Fixed broken safe deposit storage menu when closing it under certain circumstances.
Fixed cut-off Ship Interactions menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed cut-off encyclopedia descriptions.
Fixed highlight visitor setting turning off in certain situations.
Fixed licence icon in ship selection of Ship Build menu disappearing sometimes.
Fixed misplaced sorting arrow in Load Game menu.
Fixed missing icons in certain menus with specific resolution, UI scale and language combinations.
Fixed overlapping texts in player info box in upper left corner of some menus.
Fixed menu crash in Crew Information menu in certain situations.
Fixed missing warning when trying to trade with station that only has capital ship build modules.
Fixed mission guidance on Map not showing multiple objectives correctly.
Fixed order lines being shown on Map even if object icon is filtered out.
Fixed incorrect sorting of Map objects by name in certain cases.
Fixed wrongly aligned background elements in expanded flow-chart nodes.
Fixed rounding issues when truncating text.
Fixed rotation input on station plot placement map.
Fixed access to Ship Overview menu for laser towers and drones.
Fixed stuck Ship Configuration menu when deleting custom loadout.
Fixed stuck Map after closing context menus.
Fixed excessively large selection area for order and guidance lines when using mouse on Map.
Fixed paint modification encyclopedia entries being wrongly re-added to inventory ware category.
Fixed ware exchange option being available for ships with which docking is not possible.
Fixed deceptive trade offer prices and amounts if trade offer information is out of date.
Fixed NPCs appearing as full-screen background of Map menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed scaling for New Default Behaviour context menu.
Fixed visible sector description text changing under certain circumstances.
Fixed resource probes showing zero yield in locations with resources.
Fixed some areas on map being coloured as though they contain mineral resources when this is not the case.
Fixed logical station overview incorrectly listing ware reservations that do not influence production or trade offers.
Fixed not being able to remove buy offers for products under certain circumstances.
Fixed Bling Bling achievement being granted by looking at Encyclopedia.
Fixed station module and ship blueprints being available without any reputation restriction.
Fixed excessive credits sometimes being transferred to player when cancelling upgrade.
Fixed weapon cooldown delay re-starting when another weapon finishes cooling down.
Fixed ships with turrets that are in storage doing damage when player is not present.
Fixed gates and superhighways sometimes being shown outside sectors on Map.
Fixed cut-off text in Encyclopedia descriptions under certain circumstances.
Fixed Sector Info menu not being displayed correctly under certain circumstances.
Fixed incorrect display of settings in Extensions menus after restoring defaults.
Fixed inability to give piloting or management seminars to pilots or managers via Personnel Management Menu.
Fixed inability to give piloting seminars to player's relief pilot.
Fixed logbook entries being added for NPC ships bailing following attacks by other NPCs.
Fixed inconsistent faction relation display when using cover.
Fixed encyclopedia showing incorrect Sustained Weapon Output for beam weapons.
Fixed doubled group entries when assigning ships under certain circumstances.
Fixed ship constructions in Logical Station Overview showing negative progress when finished.
Fixed map filters not being applied correctly after selecting plot in Manage Plots menu.
Fixed number of queued orders being visible on ships with insufficient revealed info.
Fixed station modules sometimes listed twice in Object List or Property Owned.
Fixed interrupted text input when using HOTAS or similar input methods.
Fixed being dragged into wall by cockpit hatch in Chimera and Asp.
Fixed Theseus being able to equip mining lasers.
Fixed floating geometry on graphene production module.
Fixed several misaligned surface elements.
Fixed unsuitable shop areas appearing on certain stations.
Fixed missing doors for spacesuit docks on station dock areas.
Fixed redundant info text on radar for selected target using certain screen aspect ratios.
Fixed graphical corruption of guidance on Map.
Fixed inability to interact in first person mode in certain savegames.
Fixed getting stuck in floor when in docked capital ship.
Fixed being able to fall off dock area of Zeus.
Fixed missing visual element on hackable console in security office.
Fixed parts of venture room vanishing depending on view angle.
Fixed flipped player logo on Asp.
Fixed player logo on Boa not being completely visible.
Fixed hole in Pegasus cockpit roof.
Fixed incorrect colour on Paranid mass driver beam.
Fixed rolling character eyes.
Fixed Alert menu not being shown under certain circumstances.
Fixed cases where targeting gate displayed triangular target element instead of rectangular one.
Fixed cases of untargetable objects in first-person mode in certain cases (e.g. pilot chairs on newly constructed ships).
Fixed faction relation bar in target monitor not updating.
Fixed duplicate nebula rendering during certain conversations.
Fixed engine boost effect not being visually attached to medium sized engines.
Fixed missing barrel rotation on Bolt Repeater and Neutron Gatling.
Fixed Kha'ak turret muzzle flash not being visually connected to barrel.
Fixed message cutscenes continuing to play in background when selecting another message or menu tab.
Fixed Game Paused not being visible during Game Over.
Fixed flickering objects during Game Over.
Fixed certain sounds being played using incorrect volume setting.
Fixed Tobii devices not being detected with recent Tobii drivers.
Fixed several causes of performance issues.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed sometimes not entering superhighways during travel mode.
Fixed not being able to claim abandoned Rapier.
Fixed Solborn Militia Outpost not respawning when destroyed.
Fixed ship Silverback in Defenders of Sol mission getting stuck.
Fixed Wartime Economics mission getting stuck in dialog cutscene when entering Savage Spur II with map open.
Fixed ship delivery objective in Towards Distant Shores mission failing unintentionally.
Fixed rescue ship in Terran gamestart Displaced mission sometimes being very far away.
Fixed missing Argon dock blueprint for player during Displaced mission in Terran gamestarts.
Fixed ship to escort in Escape Plan mission sometimes not moving to station.
Fixed missions sometimes not continuing when saved and loaded during dialogue.
Fixed Wartime Economics mission getting stuck if last Xenon flees instead of being destroyed.
Fixed missing Preferred Build Method option for resupply ships.
Fixed order icons in Object List and Property Owned menus not showing correct order when using Repeat Orders
Fixed wrong station construction state in Station Build menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed Encyclopedia errors if no engines are known.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Fixed certain ship models not being claimable in person.
Fixed population information from terraforming getting lost when loading savegame.
Fixed missing description for Sealed Vacuum Tubes.
Fixed Terran Fleet Delivery Missions requesting impossible ship setup.
Fixed Defenders of Sol mission getting stuck on Approach: Erratic Miner objective under specific circumstances.
Fixed Final Debrief mission issues with mission relevant characters potentially dying too soon.
Fixed War of Intervention mission guidance breaking under specific circumstances.
Fixed End of Terrorism objective pointing to station instead of signal leaks.
Fixed various issues in Covert Operations mission.
Fixed War of Intervention mission not containing reward.
Fixed A Pirate's Trail mission getting stuck if enemy ships are defeated before player arrives.
Fixed data leaks sometimes spawning in centre of station during Pioneer gamestart mission.
Fixed target ship in Mutually Assured Destruction mission staying invincible after getting attacked by player.
Fixed Astronauts, Champions, Truth Seekers mission getting stuck if hidden ship is captured before objective is set.
Fixed objective guidance sometimes not appearing for The Meeting mission.
Fixed player getting stuck inside Silverback during Defenders of Sol mission.
Fixed Operation Hyena not progressing when player already owns station in specified Argon space.
Fixed Wartime Economics mission getting stuck in Savage Spur II under specific circumstances.
Fixed cases of Second Assistant mission getting stuck when placing Nav Beacons in hazardous region.
Fixed story getting stuck when escaping out of conversations with Rick Feynman during Double Assistant mission.
Fixed What is Best in Life achievement not being unlocked for players who completed Make War not Peace mission during beta.
Fixed sector trade offer graph in Encyclopedia showing Sell instead of Buy for buy offers in mouse-over texts.
Fixed broken shopping list in Ship Configuration menu after returning from Encyclopedia.
Fixed broken mouse picking on Map after setting trade ware filter.
Fixed Energy Cell production module efficiency claiming sunlight effect as workforce.
Fixed ships of wrong size offered when requesting ships at ship consoles.
Fixed covered ships not showing up in Undock menu.
Fixed Crew Transfer menu for player-owned shipyards.
Fixed dropdown selections appearing to reset to initial value after scrolling.
Fixed main weapon on Asgard being destroyed.
Fixed Terran medium turrets vanishing when destroyed.
Fixed freeze when using Go To Ship on ship belonging to another faction that is docked at object also belonging to another faction.
Fixed freeze when doing Long Range Scan near extremely complex station.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Improved collision detection, especially at high speeds.
Fixed re-tasked NPC traders sometimes holding on to reservations for trades they are not going to complete.
Fixed not seeing assigned trainees on HQ after relocating it to sector without training capabilities.
Fixed player being able to easily board ships they've just sold.
Fixed missile launchers not being available to Terran and Pioneer factions.
Fixed license requirements for missile launchers and turrets.
Fixed automatic buy/sell threshold calculation for intermediate wares with manual storage allocation.
Fixed blacklist entries for certain sectors not being loaded after saving.
Fixed incorrect Torus airlock state if players teleports unexpectedly.
Fixed cases of mission ship being stuck in hazardous region during Second Assistant mission.
Fixed target ship in Mutually Assured Destruction mission stopping for no apparent reason.
Fixed Advanced Satellite deployment not registering in The Meeting story mission.
Fixed From the Ashes mission not accepting Terran ship fabrication modules.
Fixed Save Them From Themselves mission not ending if important character is no longer available when objective is completed.
Fixed Hatikvah mission getting stuck when interrupting Dal during Teladi meeting.
Fixed Operation Hyena Station construction failing to complete.
Fixed Falx asking for impossible equipment loadout in Terran Deliver Fleet missions.
Fixed Oberth not accepting antimatter cells in specific circumstances.
Fixed Final Debrief not continuing when defending Saman from Pirates under specific circumstances.
Fixed issues with Undercover Trader in Zyarth's Coffin story mission.
Fixed NPC in Treacherous Shallows mission getting killed if station is destroyed before player starts conversation.
Fixed Moreya gained in Astronauts, Champions, Truth Seekers mission remaining locked from pilot assignment after end of plot.
Fixed missing reputation reward for A Heart for Pirates mission.
Fixed encyclopedia entry selection when opening sector entries.
Fixed targeting capital ships not unlocking weapon and thruster information in Encyclopedia.
Fixed missing option to resume production if production module is marked for recycling or is hacked.
Fixed Yaki station sometimes having no icon.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

New Feature: Custom game starts.
Added Deliver Fleet mission variants that ask for specific ship type but let player choose exact ship and equipment.
Added two new terraforming projects to directly increase or reduce air pressure.
Added storage information to active terraforming projects.
Added player access to some paint mods belonging to allied factions.
Added more ship system indicators to crosshairs, including flight assist, aim assist and others.
Added ware reservation information to trade menu.
Added option to cancel ware reservations at player-owned stations.
Added option to assign ships directly to subordinate group in Object List and Property Owned menus.
Added status info about insufficient funds to Account node in Logical Station Overview.
Added ware volume info to storage nodes in Logical Station Overview
Added Show Upkeep Missions option to Interact menu.
Added mission ship loadouts to Ship Configuration menu.
Added option to reset station module rotation in Station Build menu.
Added HQ account info to Research menu.
Added mass crew transfer for group trainees with player HQ.
Added module set filters to Station Build menu.
Added station module context menu to module list in Station Build menu.
Added option to hide module plan and loadout details in Station Build menu.
Added settings to Station Build menu.
Added option to prevent Tobii head-tracking hardware from being initialised using "-forcehmd disable" command line parameter.
Added Polish localisation.
Improved Build Station and Deliver Fleet mission rewards to give return on investment instead of flat reward.
Improved Deliver Fleet mission variants to ask for varying loadouts.
Improved consistency of Xenon fleet strength in Mutually Assured Destruction mission.
Improved Reflective Cloud Particles and Black Dust terraforming projects by making them repeatable.
Improved Emergency Eject feature.
Improved travel speed of formations.
Improved behaviour of station-based mining ships working for stations that require multiple resources.
Improved behaviour of police ships to sometimes allow player-owned objects to skip inspection if relations with police faction are good enough.
Improved behaviour of ships attacking targets distant enough to require use of travel mode.
Improved station-based traders to prevent them prioritising resources that are produced by their station even when those resources are in shortage.
Improved selling behaviour of station-based miners assigned to stations that require more than one mineable resource.
Improved faction logic to prevent construction of excessive numbers of stations.
Improved how factions deal with ware shortages and make decisions about new production.
Improved hazardous regions to also work when player is not nearby.
Improved AI pathing to fly around hazardous regions where possible.
Improved flight pathing for small ships docking at Tokyo.
Improved range and force of container magnet for M, L and XL ships.
Improved scanning movement of recon ships and resource scouts.
Improved balancing of relation penalty for destroying stations.
Improved balancing of price and resource cost for advanced satellites.
Improved low attention combat involving multiple capital ships.
Improved choice of positioning for newly constructed NPC stations.
Improved docking of non-capital ships.
Improved undocking movement of S and M ships to look smoother.
Improved movement of capital ships clearing jump gates after transition.
Improved capital ship combat movement when pursuing fleeing targets.
Improved behaviour of deep-level subordinates whose top-level commander is carrier.
Improved transfer of products from station to own build storage.
Improved resource probe detection range.
Improved laser tower response to attacks.
Improved Collect Drop(s) orders to also pick up ammunition containers.
Improved launch of defence drones set to Attack my Current Target.
Improved target acquisition for defence drones when switching to Attack all Enemies mode.
Improved auto aim against certain objects, especially data leaks.
Improved speed display in crosshairs.
Improved Gravidar update rate.
Improved visibility of save-related messages.
Improved visibility of turrets in scan mode.
Improved visibility of hull and shield bars on Map against colourful backgrounds.
Improved target icons for squad leaders.
Improved Map by allowing it to remember its previous state when opened again.
Improved readability of filtered wares in remaining cargo list in Map menu.
Improved info box of selected object on Map by making it transparent when cursor is over it.
Improved behaviour of Map info boxes for ships and stations.
Improved Map display of information gathered by resource probes.
Improved Map icons to display related upkeep missions on mouseover.
Improved Map behaviour to show highlighted wares even if filters would otherwise exclude them.
Improved legibility of info box of selected object on Map by making it much more opaque.
Improved handling of icons representing subordinates to fade out early when zooming out on Map.
Improved display of player-owned and allied ships on Map to show icon and info text for current order.
Improved blueprint lists in Encyclopedia.
Improved workforce information in Logical Station Overview.
Improved Station Editor by showing actual sector background and relevant objects for context.
Improved Station Editor by disabling connection snapping while pressing Control.
Improved Station Editor by allowing module rotation around all axes.
Improved Station Build menu by adding option to remove module sequences.
Improved visibility of station modules in Station Build menu.
Improved zoom sensitivity when using mouse wheel in Station Build menu.
Improved snapping to connections in Station Build menu.
Improved menu layouts for Hire and Reassign crew.
Improved interface for selecting sector order parameters.
Improved manual trade offer settings to allow buy amount that is higher than sell amount.
Improved Ship Configuration menu layout if no engines are available.
Improved Ship Behaviour by adding error messages for failed orders.
Improved loadout editor for station modules by showing other modules in construction plan for context.
Improved Confirm/Cancel buttons for ware filter selection to be always visible.
Improved New Game and Extension menus by adding more information.
Improved variety of factions seen on dock areas.
Improved appearance of Argon characters.
Improved lighting on Argon L bridge.
Improved asset pre-loading and streaming on GPUs with high memory capacity.
Improved handling of out-of-GPU-memory conditions.
Changed default setting for Alerts in Map to Low for new players
Changed size difference for fleet leader icons from 50% to 25% larger than other objects.
Removed resource yield requirement from mining ship upkeep missions.
Removed ability to drag order lines away from inter-sector connections as they often happened accidentally.
Removed XS dock capacity from Docked Ships info on map.
Removed visualisation of module connections in Build Menu while not dragging module.
Fixed relations in Terran gamestart.
Fixed advanced gamestarts not being unlocked when playing certain other gamestarts.
Fixed HQ warping to wrong position during first encounter.
Fixed Boso Ta dialog not playing when browsing research menu.
Fixed Terran and Pioneer introduction missions to HQ being stalled by research ship being destroyed.
Fixed Hatikvah story sometimes getting stuck if dialogs are interrupted.
Fixed player not being able to take control of freighter because it was put into internal storage during Hatikvah story.
Fixed data vault mission not being completable with Cradle of Humanity expansion active.
Fixed rare situation in which Escape Plan mission cannot be completed.
Fixed players getting trapped in Boneyard during Tax Evasion 101 Split story mission.
Fixed Rebellious Thralls Split story mission being stuck if player has bad faction relations towards FRF when asked to dock at Slave Trader 3.
Fixed Rebellious Thralls Split story mission being stuck at undefined Scan guidance.
Fixed Coffin Ship sometimes not undocking during To the Other Side mission in Split Story.
Fixed Fires of Fate mission in Split story not progressing when sabotaging Ravenous Wight.
Fixed objects in Abandoned Asteroid Base in Astronauts, Champions, Truth Seekers mission disappearing while player is absent.
Fixed Astronauts, Champions, Truth Seekers mission getting stuck if conversation with Ellipsis Trouble is started before story dialog could finish.
Fixed indestructible Sweet Jack ship remaining after Covert Operations storyline is completed.
Fixed Covert Operations story stalling if Antigone does not own any system.
Fixed A Matter of Respect mission getting stuck if Helianthus tries to launch too many drones at once.
Fixed Torus switch riddle to reset all switches on leaving sector.
Fixed Torus switch riddle not behaving correctly if switches are repaired/damaged too quickly.
Fixed Operation Smoke and Mirrors mission not activating properly under certain circumstances.
Fixed A Heart for Pirates mission not getting removed from Mission Manager when aborted by player.
Fixed The Smoking Gun mission not triggering if Amplifier Station is destroyed too quickly.
Fixed Defenders of Sol mission getting stuck if Silverback is destroyed before player arrives at rally point.
Fixed Patrol Missions pausing when player docks on player-owned ships.
Fixed The Mediators and The Insurgence missions accepting ships delivered with minimal equipment.
Fixed Build Station missions that ask for Administrative Centre not enforcing that requirement.
Fixed certain mission stations remaining invulnerable in case of failed Split story passenger transport.
Fixed certain Rescue Ship missions accepting transfer of ship with modified equipment.
Fixed inaccurately displayed reward in trade guild Deliver Fleet missions.
Fixed conversation option when hiring crew and immediately assigning them to Deliver Crew mission station.
Fixed Amplifier Station in Save Them From Themselves mission not leaving behind wreck.
Fixed story characters getting random names when becoming passengers.
Fixed some story missions being abortable.
Fixed mission lockboxes not rotating.
Fixed being unable to complete ship mod research mission if it was previously aborted.
Fixed advanced terraforming projects not being available if Cradle of Humanity is enabled after terraforming is unlocked.
Fixed adding gases increasing air pressure on worlds where that stat is not relevant.
Fixed player-owned subordinates sometimes not trading with other player property due to lack of funds when they don't actually need to pay.
Fixed looped trade orders not accounting for discounts when looking for trades with matching price thresholds.
Fixed incorrect trade offer price calculation for certain shipyards.
Fixed rebuilt build modules remaining inoperable after being wrecked before hack expired.
Fixed ships undergoing recycling disappearing when stored resulting in no recycled resources being gained.
Fixed modules under construction which are then destroyed not being recycled properly.
Fixed build storage of destroyed stations sometimes remaining in longer than intended.
Fixed more resources being returned to build storage when recycling station loadout upgrades.
Fixed very rare case resulting in broken ship movement when teleporting between ships in same highway.
Fixed automatic storage allocation breaking for stations with extremely large number of production modules.
Fixed subordinate traders sometimes buying then immediately re-selling same wares at commanding station.
Fixed boarding ships not trying to keep their boarding target alive while moving to engage.
Fixed turret control of boarding ships sometimes reacquiring target after target hull is below safe threshold.
Fixed player-owned mining ships finding resources in undiscovered areas of known sectors.
Fixed mining ships not firing on asteroids if any turrets are set to Attack All Enemies.
Fixed ships with turrets set to Attack Capital Ships or Attack Fighters not firing unless at least one turret is also set to Attack all Enemies.
Fixed turrets set to Missile Defence not working.
Fixed ships sometimes not uncovering areas hidden by fog of war.
Fixed player-owned ships finding paths through undiscovered sectors.
Fixed auto-traders not correctly updating when loading certain older savegames.
Fixed some buttons and doors not working after teleporting to station.
Fixed autopilot not working if guidance target is unknown and/or inactive gate or accelerator.
Fixed autopilot not using travel mode when approaching gate or accelerator.
Fixed not being able to call ship from storage if its cover faction is hostile to owner of object at which it is docked.
Fixed ships sometimes starting final dock movement many kilometers from dock.
Fixed never getting docking permission under certain rare circumstances.
Fixed fleeing ships repeatedly docking and undocking.
Fixed cases of ships being permanently unable to undock.
Fixed explosions of large objects not doing damage.
Fixed cases of duplicated HQ research modules.
Fixed Terran solar panels costing more resources than intended.
Fixed Kha'ak weapon platforms sometimes being unarmed.
Fixed Kha'ak outposts no longer appearing over time in certain situations.
Fixed pirate ships plundering objects belonging to friendly factions.
Fixed attacking capital ships staying outside weapon range.
Fixed weapons not shooting under certain circumstances.
Fixed being able to collide with hidden bridge geometry.
Fixed broken collision detection when flying certain ships near large objects.
Fixed ship turrets sometimes damaging their own ship under certain circumstances.
Fixed issues with cargo drones docking when many of them try to dock at same time.
Fixed entering ship not removing attached boarding pods.
Fixed wrong movement orientation when approaching dock in some situations.
Fixed newly constructed Terran Solar Power Plants constructing storage last resulting in delayed production.
Fixed some homeless workers remaining on station after their habitation has gone.
Fixed AI ships flying too slowly in travel mode while in formation.
Fixed spacesuit in Split gamestart sometimes being very slow.
Fixed being able to place station modules in invalid locations.
Fixed group trainees sometimes remaining in-transit on Headquarters.
Fixed carriers or fleet auxiliary ships subordinate to stations failing to get supplies.
Fixed player-owned ships set to explore or update trade offers sometimes traveling to sectors outside their target space.
Fixed ships assigned to protect stations continuing to patrol their area after their assigned station is destroyed.
Fixed subordinates of subordinates not docking if assigned while their intermediate superior is already docked.
Fixed missile-armed ships and stations with no ammunition doing damage when player is not present.
Fixed Segaris Pioneer ships being crewed by people in Terran Protectorate uniforms.
Fixed ships operating in vicinity of one-way superhighways going to work in sectors they might not be able to return from.
Fixed ships forced to bail sometimes retaining their old default behaviour.
Fixed missing item trader on stations.
Fixed being able to jump out of bounds in shops on docking areas.
Fixed being able to assign one extra service crew or marine to ships in certain cases.
Fixed subordinates of stations failing to recover if their commander is destroyed while they are searching for trades.
Fixed boarding pods not being able to fly and attach on boarding operations.
Fixed capital-class mining ships sometimes not firing on asteroids.
Fixed station supply settings not working without manager.
Fixed autopilot getting stuck in loop on highway ring if full path to destination is not known.
Fixed jumping between highways on autopilot.
Fixed police authority menu not working if too many sectors are player-owned.
Fixed Collision Avoidance not working even if game setting is set.
Fixed ships not firing at stations even if target directly in front of barrel.
Fixed defence drones set to Attack my Current Target docking without engaging shortly after launch.
Fixed ware transfer sometimes stalling with one ship locked in critical state.
Fixed subordinates sometimes docking at their respective commanders indefinitely.
Fixed ships sometimes not been able to dock in enclosed docks.
Fixed NPC station managers sometimes giving double rewards.
Fixed excessive damage when missiles hit certain targets.
Fixed lasertowers sometimes locking on to distant targets when hostile targets are within firing range.
Fixed Split factions not rebuilding trading stations.
Fixed Map icons of docked ships flickering between two positions under certain circumstances.
Fixed position of icons next to trade offers on Map when view is rotated.
Fixed object select mode in Map not working in gamepad mode.
Fixed certain Xenon stations being invisible in Savage Spur.
Fixed cargo display in ware exchange menu for stations owning mining ships.
Fixed inaccurate text for manual buy/sell offer amount settings in Logical Station Overview.
Fixed several issues with ammo and drone quantities in Logical Station Overview.
Fixed future station construction resources not appearing in Station Configuration menu if build is already in progress.
Fixed Ware Transfer options when docked at another ship.
Fixed Request dock at option not being disabled when already docked at that object.
Fixed option to change Default Behaviour not being disabled under certain circumstances.
Fixed planned Default Behaviour changes getting stuck when changing to another menu tab.
Fixed ships retaining previous Default Behaviour when being set to Repeat Orders.
Fixed station-wide loadout level resetting every time Station Build menu is closed.
Fixed problems with Personnel Management menu if ships get destroyed.
Fixed Sell Ships menu not being displayed or not being scrollable under certain circumstances.
Fixed loadout presets being available for ships with installed equipment mods
Fixed inconsistency between player ship and other player-owned objects regarding whether default orders of subordinates can be changed.
Fixed medium ships incorrectly showing missile turret compatibility in menus.
Fixed missing title text in Interact menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed missing interactions in Crew Info tab for player employees on stations.
Fixed mismatched construction budget estimates in several locations.
Fixed traders adding logbook entries describing purchase after having sold ware.
Fixed Terraforming Expenses stat being too high by factor of 100.
Fixed Terraforming projects showing invalid resources if more was delivered than needed.
Fixed overlapping text in Ship Configuration menu.
Fixed input mapping conflict not being detected when assigning axis.
Fixed lost HUD target if mission guidance changes under certain circumstances.
Fixed missing automatic storage allocation option in Logical Station Overview under certain circumstances.
Fixed blank context menus in Station Build menu under certain circumstances.
Fixed blank terraforming nodes under certain circumstances.
Fixed inactive dropdown options seeming to be interactive when clicked.
Fixed name of Station Cargo map filter to correctly indicate that it also works for ships.
Fixed inconsistent sorting in Mission Offers and Mission Manager menus.
Fixed matching icons not being visible at some zoom levels when text filter is applied.
Fixed selected ships and stations not showing full cargo on map if filter is active.
Fixed rare fog of war issues when opening Map right after long range scan.
Fixed jumpgate and superhighway connections on Map becoming misaligned.
Fixed flickering target elements if target is moving close to crosshair.
Fixed order parameter sliders resetting while being used.
Fixed displayed of per-quadrant DPS information.
Fixed Station Construction entries in Account Management menu showing station account values while using slider.
Fixed mouse-over texts for Interact menu build storage options referencing station.
Fixed order parameter position selection interacting with order lines.
Fixed changing radius parameter of default behaviours resetting position parameter.
Fixed Mission Manager and Mission Offers menus keeping expanded sections in sync.
Fixed menu crash when cancelling ship orders under certain circumstances.
Fixed save name not being immediately changeable if there is no save yet.
Fixed long range scan getting stuck when triggered while menu is open.
Fixed missing countermeasure blueprints in encyclopedia.
Fixed flight assist and auto-pilot control messages not being shown after loading saves.
Fixed storage nodes in Logical Station Overview not marked restricted under certain circumstances.
Fixed Shuffle Modules option in Station Editor when modules include Terran solar panels.
Fixed map sometimes zooming sectors out too far.
Fixed various localisation issues.
Fixed Terraforming menu crash.
Fixed Paranid head clipping through cockpit roof in Cerberus.
Fixed NPCs walking over furniture in Faction Representative office and Secret Service Bureau.
Fixed cockpit crew sometimes not interacting with terminals.
Fixed visiting NPCs behaving as though they are local crew.
Fixed Split and Terran NPCs neglecting their air marshalling duties.
Fixed pilots and ship crew from player-owned shipyards being random races instead of workforce races.
Fixed defenders in boarding operation earning experience when boarding attempt is cancelled or fails before marines even breach hull.
Fixed marines on stations running out of sight soon after docking.
Fixed Yaki appearing on dock areas where they shouldn't.
Fixed jump effect sometimes not coinciding with destination position on sector transition.
Fixed rare cases where Venture Dock would still appear as if venture was running after ship returned.
Fixed scaling problems in station editor when copying sequences repeatedly.
Fixed looped animations stuttering at very large time values.
Fixed brief incorrect image display in several menus.
Fixed weapon effects being visible in upgrade menu.
Fixed floating turrets on small Terran Liquid Storage module.
Fixed turrets being rotated wrongly on Argon Defence Disk.
Fixed visual glitch in Microchip production module.
Fixed build modules being offset when wrecked.
Fixed turrets being located on top of player logo on Nomad.
Fixed turrets on Tokyo clipping inside ship hull.
Fixed floating geometry in Manorina gas miner ship.
Fixed misaligned Cerberus spacesuit dock.
Fixed wrong texture on Okinawa bridge window.
Fixed missing holo-instruments on Argon XL bridge.
Fixed mirrored decals in Argon L bridge.
Fixed excessive number of positional lights on Osprey.
Fixed rotating flack bullets.
Fixed holographic ship controls for NPCs not being enabled when NPC sits in chair.
Fixed comm cameras not working when in external view.
Fixed pink faces on male Argon NPCs.
Fixed effect at dock persisting after touchdown if ship docked backwards.
Fixed Mercury faction logo missing on right side.
Fixed incorrect grouping of turrets on Advanced Electronics production module.
Fixed sharp line on Katana cockpit glass.
Fixed Nimcha landing gear not being attached properly.
Fixed cockpit glass on Falcon not registering collisions.
Fixed floating light and mirrored faction logo on Jian.
Fixed inverted panel texture in security office.
Fixed permanently missing texts in menus.
Fixed graphical assets failing to load during long game-sessions.
Fixed game freeze with mods containing invalid assets.
Fixed several causes of crashes.

Improved combat simulation when player not present.
Improved coordination between multiple free-flying police operating in same sector.
Improved memory usage, savegame size, and times to start new game, save and load.
Fixed being unable to set Yaki story as complete for custom gamestarts if not successful in mission.
Fixed player stations created from custom gamestarts not detecting enemies.
Fixed player not being able to target objects if spawning in space suit in custom gamestart.
Fixed linear highways being disabled when ring highways are disabled in custom gamestart.
Fixed ships with turrets potentially not shooting if created via a custom gamestart.
Fixed Flight School getting stuck if certain non-critical inputs are not mapped.
Fixed A Small Errand mission getting stuck if all lockboxes are opened in quick succession.
Fixed The Meeting mission not triggering mission guidance properly after fleeing patrol.
Fixed fleet delivered in The Mediators mission absorbing Realm of the Trinity job ships.
Fixed Split Story mission Zyarth's Coffin getting stuck when attempting to find station for Undercover Trade Ship.
Fixed Terran plot being blocked by Delilah's disappearance upon Sweet Jack's destruction.
Fixed Defenders of Sol mission not being offered if player begins game with max relations with Terran Protectorate.
Fixed A Matter of Respect mission getting stuck if informant's ship is captured before player approaches mission area.
Fixed A Heart for Pirates mission not playing dialog on completion.
Fixed Torus riddle switches being repairable while shutters are closed, resulting in riddle being impossible to solve.
Fixed hacking missions targeting stations without docks.
Fixed scan missions sometimes asking player to scan laser tower.
Fixed Terran vs Xenon guild missions asking player to scan Xenon ships carrying Hull Parts or Water.
Fixed Terran or Pioneers scan missions asking for wares that aren't used by Terran economy.
Fixed incorrect collision detection during space suit section of Flight School tutorial.
Fixed stations recycling wrecked modules too quickly and making station destruction difficult.
Fixed capital ships with main weapons (e.g. Asgard) being excessively effective when player not present.
Fixed mining ships concentrating in areas with relatively low yield.
Fixed mining drones on player ship sometimes collecting empty or incorrect asteroids.
Fixed mining drones sometimes undocking or self-destructing shortly after having returned to launching ship.
Fixed NPC-owned subordinates sometimes staying docked indefinitely.
Fixed Protect Position default behaviour sometimes ending even if designated position is accessible.
Fixed turrets retaining out-of-range targets for too long.
Fixed marines on boarding operation sometimes being lost after saving and loading.
Fixed boarding attacker strength sometimes being less than it should.
Fixed long boarding operations failing prematurely if straggling pod is destroyed.
Fixed default orders using wrong parameters after editing.
Fixed rare case where sell override settings for station ware could reset to 0.
Fixed loss of flight control by preventing activation of autopilot during undocking procedure.
Fixed disabled flight assist when retaking control after getting up during post-travel mode coasting.
Fixed station-based traders sometimes selling more than what their customers wanted.
Fixed station trade subordinates never selling product due to resource storage override.
Fixed subordinates mimicking auto-trader not logging their trades.
Fixed turrets set to Attack my current target continuing to fire after target changes ownership to non-hostile.
Fixed large turrets missing small targets by aiming at wrong position.
Fixed turrets often failing to fire at large moving targets.
Fixed discrepancies with licence requirements for Teladi turrets.
Fixed station module repair sometimes not quite reaching 100%.
Fixed calculated value of ships not taking all installed software into account.
Fixed incorrect yield display for resource probes in target monitor.
Fixed incorrect display of shield damage impact effects.
Fixed free ship repair exploit.
Fixed exporting custom gamestarts with no player money.
Fixed flight assist control message wrongly shown after loading saves under certain circumstances.
Fixed Phoenix main battery effective rate of fire.
Fixed problem with guild submissions in mission briefing menu.
Fixed menu crash when opening Ship Overview under certain circumstances.
Fixed Magpie cockpit hatch pushing player into ship wall when opening.
Fixed freeze when loading save if HQ core module was under construction.
Fixed potential issue with screen being stuck black on integrated AMD GPUs.
Fixed joystick POV hat input on Linux.
Fixed several causes of crashes.